In the beginning, there was the Great Bird, who in her fecundity laid a million, million shimmering eggs across the empty void of the universe. Look up at them every night and hope for their hatching.

So far, only one has hatched. This one special egg grew into a healthy chick, with feathers like trees, and eyes like oceans, and rivers across her beak. She became our world, over which the Thrice-Blessed Yezid Empire rules with compassionate dominion, under the watch of Her Majesty, the Radiant, Empress Yezida the Third of the Imperial House, blessed be Her name.

According to my supervisor, the Royal Ornithologist, the Honorable Hatice Fatma Hatun, I have been charged with the greatest task in all the palace, may its walls of green marble stand until the end of time. In the coming year, throughout this volume, I shall detail every bird in Her Majesty's Aviary to the best of my observation, knowledge, and research. I must have been born under an auspicious star indeed.

I am no priestess, nor historian, to tell you of the Great Bird and Her virtues. I am only Aysa, a humble scientist. Yet it is obvious to all with eyes that our Empress, Her Majesty, possesses those self-same virtues in Her wisdom, Her foresight, and Her gentle, brave heart.

Thus, though I fear I am inadequate to this task as only a junior ornithologist, I must acccept that Her Majesty knows better than I. It seems that a fellow ornithologist by the name of Cem covets my esteemed task and placement in the court, but if I work hard, surely he will see the error of his envy.

I dedicate this tome of knowledge to the name of Her Majesty, daughter of the Great Bird, overseer of all joy, and her beloved Consort Despina. She is the dove perched on the swords of our nation.

- Aysa of Yezid

~*~

SUMMER

This morning I saw a mosquito outside my window, so I suppose it must be summer, and thus the first day of my holy task. I could barely sleep. Perhaps I should have started before the sun rose, as Cem was already in the Aviary working when I arrived; nevertheless, I shall surely best him.

The birds are distraught by the heat, and it seems the whole world must be sunlit. Already I crave the taste of barbequed melon from the Kitchenmaze, but I must fulfill my duties first.

~*~

Hunting Yellowbird

Origin debated.

A pointy egg lies forgotten up against the cage edge.

~*~

Ko Mountain Owl

I see a round fowl with black-and-blue feathers. I love its conspicuous tail. The Ko Mountain Owl has a noteworthy, rich squawking which it makes in the morning. It looks to be energetic. It must be groomed with scissors when Harooni is in ascendance. It suffers in a limestone cage that is laughably large.

The back is believed to be powerful medicine, capable of curing overexcitement.

~*~

Ko Hole Owl

Captured in the local countryside.

Many eggs, nestled in a nest of thread.

~*~

Sbanadan Goat-eater

I see a bony bird. It has a thin bill, which the priestesses described in their novel. The Sbanadan Goat-eater produces a short squawking. It is carefully washed with a mohair cloth just before sunrise. I like its cage, perhaps because it was made in the shape of a V.

The breast is allegedly powerful medicine, capable of curing diseases.

~*~

Vuesse Bay Seagull

It seems to be a bird clad in pastel orange feathers. It seems to be currently molting. At high tide this species must be groomed with a special fork.

It is kept in a silver cage. Only scholars know its nest is hook-shaped and has been found in a tree. This bird produces an inspiring song during an eclipse.

It looks to be losing tail feathers. When Her Majesty's ship docks this species must be groomed with a paintbrush.

If reduced to powder, its down may be combined with seaberry for a delicious iced cream.

~*~

Lesser Grassbird

Purchased in Jamibia for 70 kurus. A wonderful price.

It seems to be a round bird dressed in smooth, leather-coloured feathers striped with yellow. I read in 'The Partridge Scrolls' that it shares a nest with Vuesse Bay Seagull. They say the moist beast's song is metallic.

It is kept in an oakwood cage. I see it is somewhat balding. I see many eggs in the cage's center. A woodcutter said this means it will snowstorm this week.

I read in 'The Book of Pomegranates' that it fears the deer.

~*~

Legendary Chicken of Pa'nen

It's a squat fowl with conspicuous yellow feathers. The Legendary Chicken of Pa'nen has a strident song. I report it is hale and hearty. It seems to have laid an asymmetrical egg! Her Majesty will be depressed. It dwells in a wicker cage that is the appropriate size.

Her Majesty likes the bird, though it's a mystery to me...

~*~

Bloodkite

It's a bird dressed in vibrant green feathers. It has a spectacular red beak. A cobbler told me the desolate bird's song is calming. It's losing tail feathers. Its cage is the appropriate size and it was built by a miner.

If reduced to powder, its skulls may be combined with blackberry for a delicious dessert.

The people of Opex associate it with victory.

~*~

Inkostrich

The Inkostrich is a mighty bird. It has a hooked bill, which it waves about. I appreciate the high song of the Inkostrich. It is carefully washed with a velvet cloth in the early evening. I do not like its cage, perhaps because it was made in the shape of a mule.

Her Majesty is said to love its crest as trim on her cloak..

~*~

The Bluebird

Captured in valleys near the Palace.

It's a striking bird. It has a notable purple throat, which it waves about. It hunts Inkostrich without mercy. The The Bluebird has an elegant song.

It sings in a reeds cage that is smallish. It's dying.

They say Her Majesty woven the The Bluebird as part of an initiative.

~*~

Seaalbatross

It's a swimming bird clad in frizzled feathers. In 'Stork Book', the striking bird's call is uplifting. I see it is becoming more wild with time. A thumbnail-sized egg lies forgotten in the cage's center. It is kept in a ceramic cage.

Beaks of the Seaalbatross are made into a tincture by the Pa'nenish and used for the treatment of viruses.

I read Her Majesty built the Seaalbatross as part of an initiative.

~*~

Umberfalcon

According to 'diamond-shaped Capability Tales', origin: Sbanad

It's a bird with a stout body sheathed in prickly feathers. I'm interested in its conspicuous crest. The bird sings with a simple chirp then a thin tweet once. I see it is sickly. It seems that it loves its two eggs.

It is kept in a leaves cage. I read in 'The Stories of Olives' (Chapter Nine) that it hunts The Bluebird.

It's energetic.

~*~

Whitevireo

It's a dripping bird whose head is black. Its thin red beak is spectacular. This bird is known for a long, brazen song. It's sickly. Its cage is the appropriate size and it was woven by a deckswabber.

Her Majesty gazes at the bird and waits for its twittering..

~*~

Joyful Hole Prince

Gifted by a charitable citizen.

It seems to be a beast dressed in glossy feathers. I adore the dire call of the Joyful Hole Prince. I observe it is healthy. It seems that it does not like its two eggs.

It sleeps in a pewter cage that is the appropriate size. They say it likes the new small offering in its cage.

It is carefully washed with a velvet cloth when the stars align.

~*~

Meddese Swan

It appears to be a bird covered with wild feathers. It has a red bill. It appears to be energetic. When the harvest begins this species must be groomed with a set of tongs.

I don't like its cage, maybe because it was sculpted in the shape of a flower. It eats Bloodkite. This bird produces a long call when a minister dies.

I perceive it is ill. It appears that it loves its two eggs.

I fear Cem has been stealing Meddese Swan offal for lamp oil, but I lack evidence.

~*~

Hungry Gold Scout

The Hungry Gold Scout is a bird with conspicuous yellow feathers. The bird sings with a short clack then a simple pipe twice. It's energetic. I don't like its cage, maybe because it was sculpted by a scout.

If ground to dust, its bones may be combined with sunflower for a delicious parfait.

Only scholars know it is the result of a tarantula and jackal falling in love, 95,000 years ago.

~*~

Penetrating Brown Woods Partridge

The Penetrating Brown Woods Partridge is a beast with distinctive grey feathers. It sings in a leaves cage that is the appropriate size.

It does not like the new fern in its cage. It is recognizable by its rich fluting. It seems to be energetic. It is fed pomegranates in a trough when Her Majesty goes to sleep.

If ground to dust, its guano may be combined with tomato for a delicious dessert.

~*~

Meddese Swift

Normally kept in the Under-Library.

The Meddese Swift is a fowl arrayed in spiky feathers. My father told me it appears that it adores look near the middle of the cage. The Meddese Swift has a bizarre call.

It lives in a sandstone cage that is enormous. Late at night this species must be groomed with scissors.

Related to this bird and its qualities, scriptures say:

'A search for love or money proves fruitless,
A string of extremely bad luck is coming your way,
Unconventional romance is coming your way: a love affair with someone you've always dismissed'

It makes me feel uneasy..

~*~

Sbanad Dunes Shrike

I see a bird with smooth brown feathers. It seems to be becoming more frizzled with time. It is fed moths against its will in the early evening.

It is kept in a leaves cage. It enjoys singing duets with Hunting Yellowbird. The Sbanad Dunes Shrike produces a brazen squawking.

It's dying.

This bird is eaten in high winds, fresh with a sunflower.

~*~

Warming Mountain Chickadee

Donated to the Palace by a wonderful miner.

It's a squat bird with prickly blue feathers. Only scholars know Warming Mountain Chickadee made its nest in the shape of a lantern, out of straw. The Warming Mountain Chickadee has a distinctive, penetrating fluting which it makes at sunset.

I quite like its cage, could be because it was created by a ranger. I see it is hale and hearty. It seems that it likes its two eggs.

It was alluded to the powerful saga by Hafsa Suleyman, Watch For A Surprising Letter In The Mail, along with Sbanadan Goat-eater

~*~

Beigecrane

Gifted to the Aviary by a priestess in Southern Medda.

I see a striking bird. It has a distinctive black beak, which the priestesses described in their story. I read the curious bird's call is joyful. It suffers in an iron cage that is pitiably small.

It adopts Legendary Chicken of Pa'nen chicks as its own. It's low-energy.

I've heard that the talons of the Beigecrane can be turned to a gel and used as a seasoning.

~*~

Sage Head Chickadee

It's a lanky creature covered with coarse, orange-coloured feathers striped with yellow. The creature sings with a high clack then a short sound thrice. It looks to be losing tail feathers. Once a week this species must be groomed with a special fork. It suffers in a leaves cage that is far too large.

In Southern Medda they often eat it, on a bed of tomato.

merchants in Southern Medda keep this bird as pets

~*~

Apple Beak Tangerine bird

It's a dainty fowl. I'm amazed by its distinctive tufted crest, which it waves about. It is fed ladybugs forcibly in harvest season.

It suffers in a clay cage that is far too large. They say its nest is made from ferns. The Apple Beak Tangerine bird's song sounds like a short trill three times, then a low tweet.

I observe it is somewhat balding. It seems to have laid a cracked egg! Maybe storms approach.

This bird is eaten when the grapes ripen, iced with a sunflower.

~*~

Pacifying Mountain Heron

It seems to be a bird with a tall body with blue-and-beige feathers. I'm interested in this bird's prominent belly. I see it is hale and hearty. It seems to have laid a motionless egg! This bodes well.

It suffers in a stone cage that is far too large. It adopts Hungry Gold Scout puffinlets as its own. The Pacifying Mountain Heron has a noteworthy, dire warbling which it makes late at night.

It's somewhat balding.

This bird is eaten frequently, barbequed with an apricot.

~*~

Northern Funny Grouse

A deckswabber said the bird came here of its own accord.

It's a bumbling creature. I'm fascinated by this fowl's prominent blue tufted crest, which it waves about. The Northern Funny Grouse's twittering sounds like a low sound once, then a thin chirp. It's becoming more smooth with time.

I like its cage, maybe because it was woven by a sailor. It seems that it doesn't like nest in the furthest corner.

It's dying.

~*~

Ashbrant

Found in the Palace the Under-Library.

I see a round beast dressed in clear grey feathers. According to 'The Book of Persuasion', it seems that it doesn't like sleep in the nest. The song of the Ashbrant resembles a woman's voice and it's a mystery to me.

It is kept in a steel cage. It looks to be vivacious. It must be groomed with a special fork in sandstorms.

It served as inspiration for the controversial saga by Sah-zade Murad, Someone Is About To Change His Or Her Mind About An Important Decision, along with Vuesse Bay Seagull

~*~

Bizarre Dunes Brant

It seems to be a creature whose beak is pink. It steals pomegranates from Ashbrant. This creature produces a dire song when Her Majesty goes to sleep.

It suffers in a clay cage that is the appropriate size. It's healthy.

One can read their forecast by such a method: match its squawking at sunset to Her Majesty's most recent speech.

~*~

Legendary Shrike of Aka Tilanasco

It seems to be a squat bird attired in silky feathers. In 'The Book of Murrelet', the Legendary Shrike of Aka Tilanasco makes a joyful buzz when it is alone. It's dying. I like its cage, perhaps because it was built in the shape of a staff.

Related to this bird and its talents, scriptures say:

'Your self-control will be tested,
Someone is watching and evaluating your work,
Your current situation must be seen as one element of a much larger plan'

Bizarre... yet possibly true..

~*~

Lesser Greenbird

Found in the Palace the Under-Library.

It's a graceful fowl with red-and-blue feathers. It hunts Hungry Gold Scout for food. This fowl is known for a high, uncanny song.

I admire its cage, maybe because it is overgrown with alder wood. It appears to be sickly. It must be groomed with a paintbrush when it hails.

I thought it spoke to me, saying: 'persuasion'.

~*~

Chattering Dainty Warbler

The Chattering Dainty Warbler is a bird with a lanky body with notable purple feathers. The Chattering Dainty Warbler has a distinctive, fearful call which it makes in the morning. It is carefully washed with a linen cloth when the figs ripen. I adore its cage, maybe because it was created by a flower-seller.

In the dry season, soldiers of Opex eat this creature under fireworks.

Her Majesty is said to love its crest as trim on her staff..

~*~

Moss Beak Jumper

Origin: Northern Medda

It looks to be a bird with a lanky body with pink-and-red feathers. It is recognizable by its delightful call. Its cage is smallish and its craftsmanship is undeserving of Her Majesty's time.

It exchanges gifts of leaves with Beigecrane. It's somewhat balding.

It's a mystery to me but this creature's skulls, when boiled, are used for cleaning piece of charcoals.

~*~

Fern Head Wren

The Fern Head Wren is a little creature, about the size of a wine jug, with spiny red feathers. I report it is losing tail feathers. It looks to have laid a perfect egg! Her Majesty will be inconsolable.

It is kept in a granite cage. I read in 'Dainty Beasts' that the turtle devours it on the hour. The Fern Head Wren communicates with a dreadful fluting.

It seems to be vivacious. Late at night this species must be groomed with a paintbrush.

I don't understand it but this bird's guano, when calcified, are used as a seasoning.

~*~

Lesser Seagull of Vuesse

It seems to be a bird with a plump body arrayed in frizzled, stone-coloured feathers spotted with grey. It has a conspicuous blue breast. The Lesser Seagull of Vuesse has a brazen call and I do not like it. I observe it is currently molting. A small egg twitches in the corner. It sings in a ceramic cage that is pitiably small.

I read that the fat of the Lesser Seagull of Vuesse can be reduced to powder and used as a ritual offering.

I thought it spoke to me, saying: 'activity'.

~*~

Warming Mountain Quetzal

Origin: Jamibia

The Warming Mountain Quetzal is a fungal bird. It has notable grey legs, which the writers described in their saga. The bird sings with a rich tweet then a low chirp three times. It is kept in a sandstone cage.

It shares a nest with Legendary Shrike of Aka Tilanasco. I observe it is dying. It seems to have laid an average-sized egg! The Keepers must come interpret its meaning.

My friend told me that the fat of the Warming Mountain Quetzal can be ground to dust and used as makeup.

~*~

Hunting Desolate Shrike

It appears to be a fowl as big as a keg attired in clear green feathers. It is recognizable by its uncanny twittering. It seems to be low-energy. It is fed flies by hand in spring. It is kept in a sandstone cage.

A famous freize in the Public Park of Sbanad features Hunting Desolate Shrike, unfortunately

~*~

The Sandy Condor

It seems to be a gangly bird with prominent red feathers. The The Sandy Condor's call sounds like a rich pipe thrice, then a low trill. I report it is dispirited. I see four eggs in the water. This bodes well. I love its cage, maybe because it was woven by an orphan.

youths in Southern Medda keep this bird as pets

~*~

Chattering Creeping Jumper

According to 'Melancholy Marriage disputes', origin: Northern Medda

The Chattering Creeping Jumper is a bird attired in strong red feathers. It has a notable black beak. The Chattering Creeping Jumper communicates with a penetrating fluting. Its cage is uncomfortably small and it contains a talisman.

It preys on Meddese Swift for food. It's losing tail feathers.

I can't comprehend it but this bird's talons, when boiled, are used as makeup.

~*~

Abyssal Opalbird

It seems to be a squat bird with red-and-brown feathers. It has a glassy bill. Few know the mysterious bird's call is rich. When the stars align this species must be groomed with a special fork. I do not like its cage, maybe because its material is poorly made.

Her Majesty requested Abyssal Opalbird specifically, because its feathers may be used in speaking with spirits...

~*~

Fearful Wash Grebe

It looks to be a lonely bird. I appreciate this bird's prominent neck, which I looked forward to. The Fearful Wash Grebe has an alluring twittering and I admire it. I report it is currently molting. It seems that it doesn't like its two eggs. I loathe its cage, maybe because it was made by a scout.

This fowl is eaten twice a year, iced with an apricot.

I thought it spoke to me, saying: 'attention'.

~*~

Green Breast Parakeet

The Green Breast Parakeet is a tall creature attired in irregular feathers. I adore this bird's conspicuous red tufted crest. I see it is vivacious. It seems to have laid a repulsive egg! The pomegranates of the glades are poisoned.

Its cage is laughably large and it was woven in the shape of a flower. It steals small mushrooms from Penetrating Brown Woods Partridge. Normally the Green Breast Parakeet makes a complex squawking but when it is alone it makes a melodious call.

Twice a week this species must be groomed with a comb.

I don't know why but this fowl's fat, when calcified, are used as makeup.

~*~

Indigogrebe

Sold by a Vuessi aviarist for 110 kurus. Average.

The Indigogrebe is a striking creature. It has a black beak, which it waves about. This bird is known for a complex, melodious song. It suffers in a cotton cage that is smallish.

In 'The Tasty Kestrel', it hunts Chattering Creeping Jumper. It looks to be dispirited. It is fed a sunflower dessert as a treat in the evening.

In the dry season, peasants of Vuesse eat this bird under fireworks.

~*~

Holy Opal Scholar

It appears to be a stout bird clothed in spiny, cinnamon-coloured feathers barred with beige. The spider hunts it when Afaq is at its peak. The Holy Opal Scholar communicates with an eerie song.

It sings in a pewter cage that is uncomfortably small. It must be groomed with a comb at moonset.

I thought it spoke to me, saying: 'confidence'.

~*~

Fearful Trail Vireo

It's a fowl clad in strong red feathers. Its wide orange beak is distinctive. The call of the Fearful Trail Vireo seems either bold or soothing depending on the season. It seems to be becoming more spiny with time. It is carefully washed with a wool cloth in sandstorms. I admire its cage, could be because it was built by a ranger.

It featured in the acclaimed saga by Nigar Hatun, A Woman Will Seek To Change Her Partner Or Lover, along with Ashbrant

~*~

Blackcrake

Purchased in Ko for 108 kurus. Fair.

It appears to be a long-legged bird covered with downy, beige-coloured feathers striped with grey. It has noteworthy brown underparts. The Blackcrake communicates with an eerie fluting. Its cage is enormous and it was constructed in the shape of a X.

Its nest is elipse-shaped and has been found in a tree. I report it is sickly. It appears to have laid a cracked egg! Her Majesty will be inconsolable.

This bird is eaten when the stars align, frozen with a melon.

~*~

Lilacowl

Origin: Jamibia

It's a mysterious bird. I wonder at its noteworthy tail, which it preens at moonrise. The Lilacowl makes a soothing sound which is quite cheerful. It dwells in a steel cage that is pitiably small.

It predates Blackcrake for food. When Qutbuddin is at its peak this species must be groomed with a paintbrush.

I don't understand it but this fowl's guano, when reduced to powder, are used as a seasoning.

~*~

Hungry Purplebird

Donated to the Aviary after last year's The Minister's Ceremony.

It's a bird with notable green feathers. The Hungry Purplebird has a charming chirping. I like its cage, possibly because it was sculpted in the shape of a sun.

It migrates in the company of Hungry Purplebird. It's losing tail feathers.

If turned to a gel, its beaks may be combined with brownberry for a delicious cream.

~*~

Western Graceful Creeper

Captured in valleys near the Palace.

It seems to be a melancholy fowl. It has noteworthy orange toes, which I was surprised by. According to 'Book of Activity', it hoards earrings, which are often stolen by Bloodkite. The song of the Western Graceful Creeper seems either dire or low depending on whether it is alone.

Its cage is large enough to fit many horse and it contains a cup. It's healthy.

It plays a kind of sport with Holy Opal Scholar, throwing sticks, which the monarchy of Opex uses in marriage disputes.

~*~

Northern Medda Meadow Chicken

It's a creeping bird. I'm amazed by this bird's prominent beige crest, which it waves about. Normally the Northern Medda Meadow Chicken makes an elegant song but when it is calling its young it makes a delicate squawking. I see it is energetic. I see four eggs in the cage's center. Storms approach. I loathe its cage, maybe because it is quite dirty.

Related to this bird and its way of life, scriptures say:

'Back off, take a time out, and let someone else handle things for a while,
Adultery and unfaithfulness,
Whatever's on your mind, go for it because you can't lose today'

A distorted reflection of reality..

~*~

Koese Goose

According to 'Birds Scrolls' by Consul Osman, origin: Ko

The Koese Goose is a fowl with a stout body with turbulent green feathers. The Koese Goose has a reassuring call and I quite like it. Its cage is of medium size and it is freshly cleaned.

Few know it shares a nest with Blackcrake. Often this species must be groomed with a horsehair brush.

I secretly believe Cem has been stealing Koese Goose feathers as a seasoning, but I have no proof.

~*~

Pa'nen Bay Vireo

It's a squat bird with noteworthy yellow feathers. I wonder at its notable tufted crest. The Pa'nen Bay Vireo makes an inspiring sound which is quite low. I must report it is somewhat balding. It looks that it loathes its two eggs. It is kept in a straw cage.

This lucky beast has been allowed to perch on Her Majesty's staff..

~*~

Holy Snowbird

Bartered by a poet, for tax payment.

I see a bird with a gangly body arrayed in pastel beige feathers. The Holy Snowbird's song sounds like a thin trill once, then a high tweet. I like its cage, could be because it is freshly polished.

Its nest is prism-shaped and has been found in a garden. It is fed roots forcibly at the full moon.

In Ko they often eat it, followed by a bronze bowl of sunflower-river water.

~*~

Chattering Partridge of Northern Medda

Found in the Palace the Skygarden.

It's a bird clad in strong beige feathers. Its small purple bill is noteworthy. The twittering of the Chattering Partridge of Northern Medda seems either reassuring or uplifting depending on the season. It appears to be hale and hearty. It must be groomed with a paintbrush when the harvest begins.

Its cage is laughably large and its aura is disappointing. According to 'Tales of Completion', Chattering Partridge of Northern Medda made its nest in the shape of a book, out of reeds.

It's vivacious.

~*~

Honey Head Goose

I see a squat creature whose throat is purple. It looks that it loathes eat in the nest. The call of the Honey Head Goose seems either eerie or blaring depending on the nature of its diet.

It dwells in a sandstone cage that is laughably large. It seems to be becoming more silky with time. It must be groomed with a comb when it's foggy.

I dreamed of it last night.

~*~

Seafoamcrane

The Seafoamcrane is a lanky bird with brown-and-black feathers. It has a knife-like beak. It is fed magnolia wood on a platter at high tide.

Its cage is of medium size and it was woven in the shape of a waves. It hoards seeds, which are often stolen by Lilacowl. This bird is known for a long, thin song.

It seems to be energetic. It is carefully washed with a wool cloth in the afternoon.

I can't comprehend it but this bird's eggshells, when calcified, are used for the treatment of hand difficulties.

~*~

Greater Kite of Aka Tilanasco

It appears to be a dignified beast with spectacular brown feathers. It enjoys singing duets with Sage Head Chickadee. Only scholars know the sandy fowl's call is fearful.

It sleeps in a gold cage that is large enough to fit two horse. I perceive it is becoming more prickly with time. I see many eggs next to the nest. This bodes ill.

It plays a kind of sport with Fearful Trail Vireo, swinging small mushrooms, which the monarchy of Aka Tilanasco uses in blessing a grave.

~*~

Pa'nenish Heron

It looks to be a diminutive bird, no bigger than a cap, clad in spiky, gunpowder-coloured feathers spotted with black. I report it is energetic. It looks that it adores its two eggs.

It is kept in an oakwood cage. It hoards leaves, which are often stolen by Warming Mountain Chickadee. This bird is known by its bizarre twittering.

It's currently molting.

I think Cem has been stealing Pa'nenish Heron down as makeup, but I have no proof.

~*~

Piercing Imposing Ostrich

It appears to be a bird with a stout body sheathed in spiky feathers. The Piercing Imposing Ostrich makes a brash sound which is quite blaring. It's somewhat balding. It is kept in a ceramic cage.

If calcified, its guano may be combined with apricot for a delicious salad.

A cobbler said fortune-tellers swirl feathers in a thimble of olive juice and read the pattern twice a year

~*~

Coastal Dripping Albatross

It looks to be a dripping bird. I love its prominent tail, which it preens when Her Majesty's ship docks. Its cage is pitiably small and it was woven in the shape of a water.

It likes the new clump of oakwood in its cage. The Coastal Dripping Albatross has a blustering warbling and I loathe it. I observe it is becoming more coarse with time. I see many eggs in a piece of driftwood. This bodes ill.

Droppings of the Coastal Dripping Albatross are made into a tincture by the Pa'nenish and used as currency.

~*~

Short Peak Chicken

Confiscated from the the Rose Hall.

It's a creature whose tail is red. I'm interested in this bird's noteworthy back. It bathes in the company of Short Peak Chicken. This beast is known for a rich, long song.

It sings in a granite cage that is uncomfortably small. It is carefully washed with a linen cloth when Afaq is in ascendance.

It was mentioned in the powerful novel by Sofiye Gazi, Someone's Using Alchemy Or Alcohol To Excess, along with Chattering Dainty Warbler

~*~

Legendary Grown Welder

It's a bird with notable green feathers. I'm intrigued by this bird's noteworthy beak. I admire its cage, perhaps because it is covered in dust.

It exchanges gifts of sticks with Pacifying Mountain Heron. The Legendary Grown Welder communicates with a brash song. I perceive it is somewhat balding. It appears to have laid a motionless egg! Her Majesty will be depressed.

In Southern Medda they often eat it, on a bed of sunflower.

~*~

Aka Tilanasco Pass Falcon

The Aka Tilanasco Pass Falcon is a bird clothed in downy feathers. I love this creature's distinctive tail. Aka Tilanasco Pass Falcon prefers to create its nest out of thread, in a garden. I read in 'The Book of Conclusion' that the Aka Tilanasco Pass Falcon makes a haunting fluting when it is hunting.

I do not like its cage, maybe because it was built in the shape of a V. It's sickly.

I once bought a ladle from Jamibia with a drawing of this fowl on the side.

~*~

Sea Throat Cormorant

Sold by a Pa'nenish retailer for 70 kurus.

I see a long fowl with black-and-red feathers. I wonder at its noteworthy crest. The song of the Sea Throat Cormorant seems either reassuring or blaring depending on its mood. It's currently molting.

I love its cage, maybe because it was sculpted by a deckswabber. They say it hunts Ko Hole Owl.

It seems to be somewhat balding. It is fed barbequed rice by hand in spring.

~*~

Violet Back Crake

The Violet Back Crake is a secretive creature. It has spectacular grey wings, which the seers described in their saga. It exchanges gifts of eggs with Seaalbatross. The Violet Back Crake has a distinctive, thin squawking which it makes at sunset.

I admire its cage, possibly because it is freshly polished. It seems to be healthy. It is carefully washed with a camel hair cloth when the stars align.

I dreamed of it last night.

~*~

Meddese Creeper

The Meddese Creeper is a graceful fowl. Its conical blue beak is distinctive, which I did not expect. The Meddese Creeper's fluting sounds like a complex pipe thrice, then a short clack. I report it is somewhat balding. A handsome egg has been put in the corner. I admire its cage, maybe because it was sculpted by a climber.

Guano of the Meddese Creeper are boiled by the Meddese and used for cleaning.

It makes me want to visit military-minded Northern Medda.

~*~

Piercing Beigebird

I read in 'Book of Olives' (Chapter One) that the bird came here of its own accord.

The Piercing Beigebird is a tall bird whose head is purple. The Piercing Beigebird has a spectacular, elegant song which it makes at sunset. It is kept in a pewter cage.

It migrates in the company of Piercing Beigebird. It is carefully washed with a mohair cloth at high noon.

This bird is eaten late at night, barbequed with a goldberry.

~*~

Jamibia Ditch Princess

Found in the Palace the Pit.

The Jamibia Ditch Princess is a bird with fluffy blue feathers. It consumes a camel-weight of a tomato iced cream. This bird is known by its brash chirping.

I don't like its cage, maybe because its aura is undeserving of Her Majesty's time. It's becoming more coarse with time.

People say in Jamibia that the Jamibia Ditch Princess is always to be found near a dreamer.

~*~

Coral Throat Penguin

According to 'Cartilage Book', origin: Vuesse

The Coral Throat Penguin is a round bird clad in clear orange feathers. It seems this bird makes a sharp call when Her Majesty prays for peace, yet I have not heard it. It's energetic.

I do not like its cage, possibly because it contains a goblet. Coral Throat Penguin prefers to build its nest out of driftwood, near the sea.

It must be groomed with a comb occasionally.

~*~

Hunting Leather Scout

Bartered by a miner, for a freshly dug hole of ink.

It looks to be a round beast with spectacular grey feathers. It hoards beetle shells, which are often stolen by Bizarre Dunes Brant. This bird is known by its metallic fluting.

Its cage is far too large and it contains a telescope. It's healthy.

The people of Ko associate it with victory.

~*~

Hunting Mighty Tanager

The Hunting Mighty Tanager is a burrowing bird. I love this bird's noteworthy tail, which it preens in autumn. I'm curious about the calming warbling of the Hunting Mighty Tanager. I see it is dispirited. I see two eggs in the nest. The Keepers must come interpret its meaning. It sings in a marble cage that is smallish.

If turned to a gel, its bones may be combined with sunflower for a rare parfait.

It plays a kind of sport with Joyful Hole Prince, hitting pebbles, which the monarchy of Southern Medda uses in naming a child.

~*~

Appleeater

Origin: Northern Medda

It's a large bird, bigger than a person, with beige-and-black feathers. This fowl produces a high warbling when Her Majesty goes to sleep. It lives in a reeds cage that is smallish.

It eats in the company of Appleeater. It's dying.

If boiled, its talons may be combined with rice for a tasty parfait.

~*~

Aka Tilanasco Creekbed Hen

It's a bird attired in irregular, tan-coloured feathers mottled with grey. I'm perplexed by this bird's notable tail. Normally the Aka Tilanasco Creekbed Hen makes a jubilant call but when it is in a group it makes a blaring song. It's somewhat balding. It is kept in a stone cage.

foreigners in Aka Tilanasco keep this bird as decoration

~*~

The Ivory Dreamer

It's a strange beast. I'm perplexed by this bird's notable pink plume, which it waves about. The The Ivory Dreamer makes a dire sound which is quite alluring. At moonset this species must be groomed with a paintbrush. Its cage is smallish and its aura is a work of art.

When I am near it I think of objection.

~*~

Goldbluebill

Sold by a Tilanascion merchant for 1,000 kurus. Average.

It appears to be a gangly bird with fluffy red feathers. The Goldbluebill has a notable, rich warbling which it makes in the afternoon. I adore its cage, could be because its craftsmanship is disappointing.

I read in 'Encyclopedia of Change' by Col. Hatun that occasionally the bird pecks facing south. It must be groomed with a special fork at high noon.

Feathers of the Goldbluebill are dried and ground by the Tilanascion and used as currency.

~*~

Holy Duskbird

It's a bird whose throat is beige. This bird produces a joyful warbling during Silver Festival. I see it is hale and hearty. It seems that it obsesses over its two eggs. I adore its cage, maybe because it contains an arrow.

I once bought a bird skull from Aka Tilanasco with a drawing of this bird on the side.

~*~

Salmonshearwater

According to 'The Guide of Blessing a grave' (first Edition), origin: Pa'nen

The Salmonshearwater is a lanky creature clothed in pastel red feathers. I wonder at this bird's spectacular tufted crest. The Salmonshearwater has a conspicuous, joyful call which it makes just before sunrise. It's sickly.

It lives in a pewter cage that is the appropriate size. It mates in the company of Salmonshearwater.

It must be groomed with a paintbrush rarely.

~*~

Hungry Imposing Vulture

The Hungry Imposing Vulture is a plump bird with black-and-pink feathers. I'm perplexed by this bird's prominent crest. It dwells in a ceramic cage that is uncomfortably small.

It steals figs from Meddese Creeper. I love the soft call of the Hungry Imposing Vulture. It appears to be losing tail feathers. It is carefully washed with a wool cloth during an eclipse.

Skulls of the Hungry Imposing Vulture are calcified by the Tilanascion and used in jackal ownership disputes.

~*~

Chattering Lichenbird

It's a creature covered with clear black feathers. The creature sings with a thin sound then a high clack twice. It's becoming more silky with time. It is kept in an oakwood cage.

I gather Cem has been stealing Chattering Lichenbird talons as currency, so I should report it.

When I am near it I think of victory.

~*~

Forbidden Enigmatic Vireo

It's a huge bird, as big as a person, attired in vivid brown feathers. It has a conspicuous orange tail. Normally the Forbidden Enigmatic Vireo makes a bizarre buzz but when it desires a mate it makes a long call. I perceive it is hale and hearty. An unremarkable egg is in the nest. It is kept in a limestone cage.

A renowned watercolor in the Patriotic Palace of Ko features Forbidden Enigmatic Vireo, hitting a Hungry Imposing Vulture

~*~

Lesser Creeping Saffron bird

It's a tiny bird the size of a tea cup clothed in light green feathers. Normally the Lesser Creeping Saffron bird makes a high call but when it is in a group it makes a penetrating song. It seems to be healthy. It must be groomed with a paintbrush in early winter. I love its cage, perhaps because it was made in the shape of a circle.

If boiled, its eggshells may be combined with tomato for a delicious salad.

It makes me want to visit spiteful Opex.

~*~

Grey Head Catcher

It seems to be a melancholy bird with black-and-beige feathers. I wonder at this bird's notable throat. The fowl sings with a long chirp then a complex tweet thrice. When the harvest begins this species must be groomed with a comb. It sings in a granite cage that is enormous.

They say to read your future, match its squawking at sunset to star twinkling frequencies

~*~

Jamibia Hole Starling

It's a beast with a round body whose neck is yellow. I wonder at this beast's notable beak. I don't like its cage, maybe because it was made in the shape of a diamond.

It adopts Bizarre Dunes Brant chicks as its own. The Jamibia Hole Starling makes a melodious sound which is quite reassuring. It seems to be somewhat balding. It is carefully washed with a mohair cloth daily.

A scholar said that the feathers of the Jamibia Hole Starling can be reduced to powder and used as a ritual offering.

~*~

Simple Trail Plover

Origin: Southern Medda

It's an ancient bird with frizzled brown feathers. Simple Trail Plover prefers to build its nest out of cactus needles, in sight of a cactus. I read the Simple Trail Plover makes a long call when it is courting.

I like its cage, maybe because it contains a cup. It's hale and hearty.

They say it is the result of a coyote and spider falling in love, 380 years ago.

~*~

Seafisher

It seems to be a beast with a squat body attired in fluffy feathers. This bird, the Seafisher, makes a rich warbling or a sound like a distant music depending on the time of day It is fed pomegranates on a platter when the wind blows in from the water. It is kept in a stone cage.

It plays a kind of sport with Hungry Gold Scout, carrying beetle shells, which the tribal council of Vuesse uses in granting a title to nobility.

~*~

Opex Field Tanager

I see a creeping creature. I adore this bird's noteworthy beige tufted crest, which it waves about. Its cage is uncomfortably small and it was built in the shape of a circle.

If you can trust my grandpa, when it hails the bird pecks east. It is recognizable by its haunting call. It is fed grilled berry on a platter when the harvest begins.

In Opex they often eat it, followed by an iron bowl of rice-melted snow.

~*~

Singing Graceful Duck

Bartered by a woodworker, for tax payment.

It's a petite bird the size of a belt buckle sheathed in deep purple feathers. The Singing Graceful Duck makes a delightful sound which is quite strange. Its cage is the appropriate size and it contains a telescope.

A butcher said its nest is made from reeds. It is carefully washed with a feather cloth on the hour.

Eggshells of the Singing Graceful Duck are boiled by the Opexi and used as currency.

~*~

Lesser Crow of Ko

It's a fungal bird attired in silky feathers. I'm intrigued by this bird's spectacular throat. This beast is known for a complex, uncanny song. I see it is somewhat balding. An unremarkable egg has been put in the nest. It is kept in a stone cage.

If dried and ground, its offal may be combined with berry for a delicious parfait.

Her Majesty hates this intriguing bird... I worry..

~*~

Hungry Dipper of Aka Tilanasco

The Hungry Dipper of Aka Tilanasco is a creature with a long-necked body with black-and-red feathers. I adore its prominent tail. This creature is known for a short, dire song. I report it is dying. I see two eggs up against the cage edge. Her Majesty will be disturbed. It is kept in a ceramic cage.

A controversial fresco in the National Square of Aka Tilanasco features Hungry Dipper of Aka Tilanasco, unfortunately

~*~

Meddese Shrike

Donated to the Aviary after last year's Validation Jubilee.

The Meddese Shrike is a petite bird the size of a fig whose back is yellow. It has a conical bill. This bird produces a charming twittering during an eclipse. It's dispirited.

Its cage is pitiably small and its appearance is a work of art. Everyone knows it hoards earrings, which are often stolen by Seafoamcrane.

It's losing tail feathers.

~*~

Yellow Breast Eater

The Yellow Breast Eater is a stout beast clothed in pale orange feathers. I adore its cage, perhaps because its craftsmanship is admirable.

According to 'Great Victory Book', it eats in the company of Yellow Breast Eater. The Yellow Breast Eater has a warming call and I quite like it. I perceive it is healthy. A warm egg has been laid in the nest.

In Opex they often eat it, on a bed of nut.

~*~

Legendary Tea Welder

Origin: Sbanad

It looks to be a mighty bird attired in spiny, grown-coloured feathers speckled with grey. It shares a nest with Hungry Imposing Vulture. They say the Legendary Tea Welder produces a sound like howling winds.

It suffers in a straw cage that is uncomfortably small. It appears to be low-energy. It is fed worms against its will in high winds.

When I am near it I think of withdrawal.

~*~

Jamibian Teal

The Jamibian Teal is an elegant beast. I'm intrigued by its notable tufted crest, which the prophets described in their novel. I quite like its cage, perhaps because it is freshly polished.

I've heard it exchanges gifts of earrings with Appleeater. Few know the mysterious bird's call is dreadful. I observe it is hale and hearty. It appears that it does not like its two eggs.

Down of the Jamibian Teal are reduced to powder by the Jamibian and used for cleaning.

~*~

Forbidden Duskbird

It appears to be a great bird, as big as a person, with purple-and-green feathers. I adore this bird's noteworthy blue tufted crest. I perceive it is sickly. It seems to have laid a cracked egg! This bodes well.

It sleeps in a silver cage that is of medium size. It predates Sbanad Dunes Shrike. The Forbidden Duskbird communicates with a thin song.

When it snows this species must be groomed with a special fork.

In summer, girls of Ko eat this bird under full moons.

~*~

Calming Hole Crake

I see a bird with a gangly body with noteworthy black feathers. I adore this creature's conspicuous breast. The Calming Hole Crake has a notable, reassuring call which it makes just before sunrise. It's losing tail feathers. I love its cage, maybe because it contains a brazier.

Few know in Jamibia that the Calming Hole Crake is always to be found near an artist.

~*~

Red Back Thrasher

I see a large creature, as big as a keg, attired in spiny, topaz-coloured feathers penciled with red. The Red Back Thrasher has a distinctive, penetrating twittering which it makes at sunrise. It appears to be vivacious. During an eclipse this species must be groomed with a paintbrush. I admire its cage, maybe because it is very green.

It reminds me of Cem, in a cold way.

~*~

Southern Princess of Jamibia

Bartered by a seer, for tax payment.

It's a fungal bird with red-and-blue feathers. It has a prominent beige neck. The Southern Princess of Jamibia has a portentous twittering and I admire it. It appears to be dispirited. When Jilani is in ascendance this species must be groomed with a set of tongs.

I quite like its cage, maybe because its look is admirable. People say occasionally the bird nests heavenward.

I see it is hale and hearty. I see four eggs up against the cage edge. The Keepers must come interpret its meaning.

~*~

Legendary Black Writer

Acquired as part of the Advancement Campaign.

It appears to be an unusual bird. Its brown orange beak is distinctive, which the priestesses described in their story. I'm amazed by the high song of the Legendary Black Writer. It seems to be hale and hearty. It is carefully washed with a camel hair cloth when Khoja is at its peak.

Its cage is the appropriate size and it contains an arrow. Legendary Black Writer made its nest in the shape of a goblet, out of scales.

It is fed bark as a treat in the new moon.

~*~

Singing Peachbird

Gifted to Her Majesty by an admirer in Ko.

It seems to be a large creature, as big as a camel, with conspicuous red feathers. The Singing Peachbird's warbling sounds like a complex sound three times, then a short tweet. It seems to be becoming more downy with time. It is carefully washed with a cotton cloth often.

Its cage is enormous and it is freshly cleaned. It eats Legendary Chicken of Pa'nen for food.

It's hale and hearty.

~*~

Bizarre Trail Ptarmigan

Origin: Aka Tilanasco

I see a bony bird with yellow-and-red feathers. I appreciate its prominent tail. The Bizarre Trail Ptarmigan has a noteworthy, simple song which it makes at sunrise. Its cage is of medium size and it is very clean.

People say it hoards leaves, which are often stolen by Fearful Trail Vireo. It's becoming more uniform with time.

Droppings of the Bizarre Trail Ptarmigan are made into a tincture by the Tilanascion and used to trade.

~*~

Hunting Vireo of Aka Tilanasco

The Hunting Vireo of Aka Tilanasco is an imposing bird. I'm fascinated by this creature's notable tufted crest, which I expected. The Hunting Vireo of Aka Tilanasco communicates with an ominous squawking. It's low-energy. Its cage is the appropriate size and it is a little messy.

This bird is eaten in spring, iced with a rice.

I read in 'Mighty Divination Book' that Her Majesty built the Hunting Vireo of Aka Tilanasco as part of an initiative.

~*~

Piercing Creekbed Vulture

Donated to the Palace by a fantastic boy.

The Piercing Creekbed Vulture is a fowl arrayed in fluffy, blood-coloured feathers striped with pink. The Piercing Creekbed Vulture has a low call. Its cage is of medium size and it is covered in dust.

It shares a nest with Aka Tilanasco Creekbed Hen. It appears to be dying. It is fed horse flank on a platter in the morning.

In Southern Medda they often eat it, followed by a cup of greenberry-grape juice.

~*~

Holy Silverbird

It's an elegant bird arrayed in strong blue feathers. It has a spectacular black bill. I've heard its nest is made from garbage. The Holy Silverbird has a pacifying squawking.

Its cage is smallish and its look is admirable. I report it is ill. It seems to have laid a thumbnail-sized egg! The Keepers must come interpret its meaning.

Her Majesty requested Holy Silverbird specifically, because they say its dreadful song brings wholeness...

~*~

Greater Ochre Gossip

It's a bird as big as a horse with noteworthy green feathers. This creature produces a dire song during an eclipse. I must report it is sickly. An average-sized egg rolls around in the cage's center. I admire its cage, maybe because it contains a bird skull.

In Southern Medda they often eat it, followed by a goblet of tomato-coffee.

It plays a kind of sport with Green Breast Parakeet, burying cherries, which the monarchy of Southern Medda uses in divination.

~*~

Piercing Stone Welder

Captured in the local countryside.

I see a bird dressed in wild feathers. The Piercing Stone Welder has a distinctive, haunting warbling which it makes at sunset. It lives in a ceramic cage that is the appropriate size.

A welder told me it shares a nest with Meddese Swift. It's hale and hearty.

In Southern Medda they often eat it, on a bed of melon.

~*~

Delightful Hole Crow

I see a bird sheathed in coarse, clay-coloured feathers peppered with black. The Delightful Hole Crow has a conspicuous, lovely warbling which it makes in the afternoon. It's hale and hearty. It is kept in a copper cage.

Her Majesty is said to love its plume as trim on her bedspread..

~*~

Greater Funny Hen

It's a creature whose tail is red. Its sturdy yellow beak is noteworthy. It enjoys singing duets with Aka Tilanasco Pass Falcon. The Greater Funny Hen produces an uplifting warbling.

It is kept in a sandstone cage. It is fed bugs in a trough in the morning.

Her Majesty gazes at the bird and waits for its call..

~*~

Meddese Vulture

Exchanged by a survivor, for tax payment. A terrible deal.

The Meddese Vulture is a burrowing bird with orange-and-yellow feathers. I'm fascinated by this bird's prominent black crest. It appears that it likes twitter in the cage's center. The Meddese Vulture has a low call.

Its cage is of medium size and it is covered in dust. I report it is losing tail feathers. It seems that it admires its two eggs.

I once found a brazier from Northen Medda with a drawing of this bird on the side.

~*~

Jamibia Cave Raven

Found in the the Emerald Harems in the afternoon.

It seems to be a gangly bird sheathed in fluffy, dust-coloured feathers striped with pink. I'm perplexed by this bird's noteworthy purple tufted crest. The Jamibia Cave Raven has a thin twittering and I quite like it. Its cage is the appropriate size and it is freshly polished.

It hunts Sage Head Chickadee. It's somewhat balding.

In the dry season, boys of Jamibia eat this bird under full moons.

~*~

Southern Grass Butcher

It's a lanky bird with notable brown feathers. The Southern Grass Butcher has a low call and I love it. It's sickly. It sings in a steel cage that is uncomfortably small.

gardeners in Northern Medda keep this bird as decoration

~*~

Gentle Island Pelican

The Gentle Island Pelican is a long-legged creature with green-and-orange feathers. I'm amazed by its distinctive plume. The Gentle Island Pelican communicates with a rich call. It's dispirited. It is kept in a bone cage.

Everyone knows that the guano of the Gentle Island Pelican can be dried and ground and used for cleaning coins.

It makes me want to visit brine-crusted Pa'nen.

~*~

Southern Medda Pass Eagle

It's a beast as big as a barrel with spiky yellow feathers. A hermit told me the ancient fowl's warbling is sedate. It must be groomed with a horsehair brush in high winds. Its cage is the appropriate size and it contains a paint.

According to 'The Wholeness Book', that the beaks of the Southern Medda Pass Eagle can be ground to dust and used to trade.

It is crucial to the Early summer Ritual.

~*~

Meddese Pecker

It's a gangly creature with black-and-brown feathers. They say it exchanges gifts of earrings with Greater Ochre Gossip. This fowl is known for a thin, beautiful song.

I do not like its cage, could be because its look is of high quality. It looks to be dispirited. It must be groomed with a brush in the evening.

Few know fortune-tellers drop feathers from edge of bridge and read the pattern when it rains

~*~

Twilightdipper

The Twilightdipper is a long-necked bird dressed in glossy, black-coloured feathers striped with beige. I wonder at this creature's prominent tail. The Twilightdipper's call sounds like a short clack once, then a complex tweet. It seems to be sickly. It is carefully washed with a silk cloth when it snows. It is kept in a glass cage.

In Ko they often eat it, followed by a chalice of twilightberry-date juice.

I dreamed of it last night.

~*~

Lesser Greybird

Origin: Vuesse

It is only an egg for now, repulsive and primarily creamy.

~*~

Quartz Head Raven

Sold by a Koese storekeeper for 200 kurus.

It looks to be a plump bird with glossy yellow feathers. Few know the Quartz Head Raven makes a metallic call when it is in a group. It appears to be dispirited. At moonset this species must be groomed with a comb.

Its cage is far too large and it is quite dirty. Its nest is elipse-shaped and has been found in sight of caves.

It's healthy.

~*~

Chattering Jumper of Opex

Origin: Opex

It's a bird with distinctive purple feathers. I'm fascinated by this bird's noteworthy throat. It doesn't like the new piece of driftwood in its cage. The Chattering Jumper of Opex makes a thin sound which is quite admirable.

I don't like its cage, maybe because it is alive with snails. It looks to be somewhat balding. It must be groomed with a brush once a day.

Fortune-tellers match its squawking late at night to star twinkling frequencies often.

~*~

Grotesque Hole Raven

It seems to be a stout bird with distinctive yellow feathers. It has a knife-like bill. It consumes a lot of seeds. This bird is known for a low, elegant song.

Its cage is large enough to fit many large dog and it is a bit empty. I perceive it is low-energy. It appears to have laid a warm egg! Her Majesty will be overjoyed.

I decided to drop feathers from edge of chapel and read the pattern the outcome said: Romance is in the cards ... Couldn't be further from the truth..

~*~

Warbling Redbird

It's a melancholy bird with spectacular purple feathers. It has a prominent green neck. The Warbling Redbird makes a sedate sound which is quite blustering. It seems to be healthy. Occasionally this species must be groomed with a brush. It is kept in a granite cage.

In summer, fools of Opex eat this bird under full moons.

Her Majesty is said to love its tail as trim on her staff..

~*~

Harrowing Trail Vireo

I see a small bird with sleek green feathers. It is kept in a straw cage.

They say it eats Umberfalcon for food. The Harrowing Trail Vireo makes a delicate sound which is quite strident. It seems to be sickly. In sandstorms this species must be groomed with a comb.

I don't know why but this bird's talons, when dried and ground, are used to trade.

~*~

Greater Parakeet of Northern Medda

The Greater Parakeet of Northern Medda is a squat bird attired in sleek feathers. It has a strong beak. It sleeps in a marble cage that is enormous.

It loathes the new fern in its cage. The fowl sings with a simple sound then a rich chirp once. It's dying.

I worry Cem has been stealing Greater Parakeet of Northern Medda down for cleaning loaf of breads, but I lack evidence.

~*~

Yellowpenguin

Gifted by the generosity of Dr. Mukrime.

It's a giant fowl, as big as a large dog, whose neck is blue. I wonder at this fowl's noteworthy throat. The bird sings with a simple chirp then a long trill once. I love its cage, could be because it was sculpted in the shape of a waves.

They say it exchanges gifts of sticks with Pa'nenish Heron. It is fed grasshoppers forcibly daily.

I suspect Cem has been stealing Yellowpenguin droppings for cleaning, but I lack evidence.

~*~

Lesser Skybird

It seems to be a small fowl, no bigger than an oysterberry, covered with uniform feathers. Its cage is smallish and it contains a ladle.

They say it exchanges gifts of seashells with Southern Medda Pass Eagle. I've heard the striking creature's fluting is blaring. It appears to be ill. It must be groomed with a brush late at night.

In the dry season, cooks of Pa'nen eat this bird under fireworks.

~*~

Sbanadan Falcon

I see a sandy bird. Its sturdy green bill is conspicuous, which it preens twice a week. I'm curious about the alluring song of the Sbanadan Falcon. It seems to be becoming more lustrous with time. It is fed butterflies forcibly rarely. It sings in a silver cage that is laughably large.

wanderers in Sbanad keep this bird as pets

~*~

Holy Princess of Jamibia

I see a long-legged beast clad in sleek feathers. I've heard it appears that it loves peck in the west-most corner. The squawking of the Holy Princess of Jamibia seems either soft or warming depending on the time of day.

It is kept in a leaves cage. It's dispirited.

They say in Jamibia that the Holy Princess of Jamibia is always to be found near a writer.

~*~

Piercing Ostrich of Southern Medda

According to 'The Attention Guide' by Capt. Gazi, origin: Southern Medda

Two eggs, nestled in a nest of snake bones.

~*~

Northern Shrike of Sbanad

It's a bird with a squat body arrayed in pale blue feathers. It has a thick beak. The bird sings with a long trill then a complex chirp once. In sandstorms this species must be groomed with a comb. I like its cage, perhaps because it is very clean.

To read your future, match its squawking in the evening to the Library listings.

~*~

Piercing Cinnamon Stonemason

It's a dusty bird. It has a prominent blue throat, which the poets described in their song. This bird is known by its strange call. It seems to be ill. It must be groomed with a brush frequently. Its cage is far too large and it was made in the shape of a staff.

When I am near it I think of activity.

~*~

Southern Lavenderbird

The Southern Lavenderbird is a fungal bird. It has a distinctive red tail, which I did not expect. When Khoja is at its peak this species must be groomed with a comb.

It sleeps in a bone cage that is far too large. Few know Southern Lavenderbird made its nest in the shape of a goblet, out of twigs. The Southern Lavenderbird has an uplifting call and I quite like it.

It must be groomed with a set of tongs on the hour.

In the dry season, interpreters of Ko eat this bird under full moons.

~*~

Northern Dignified Piper

It looks to be a bird with a squat body clothed in prickly feathers. It has a thin beak. In the evening this species must be groomed with a set of tongs.

I like its cage, maybe because it was made by a stonemason. They say it admires the new piece of driftwood in its cage. The Northern Dignified Piper produces a metallic chirping.

It must be groomed with a comb occasionally.

Guano of the Northern Dignified Piper are boiled by the Meddese and used to trade.

~*~

Vuessi Goose

The Vuessi Goose is a bird whose tail is black. It has a noteworthy purple beak. Its cage is uncomfortably small and its material is poorly made.

I read in 'The Reports of Birds' (first Edition) that rarely the bird nests in my direction. I wonder at the haunting call of the Vuessi Goose. It's sickly.

If boiled, its feathers may be combined with rice for a great iced cream.

~*~

Meddese Parakeet

It seems to be a bird with a long-necked body attired in deep grey feathers. It is recognizable by its short call. It appears to be dying. It is fed a melon garnished with berry (grilled or chilled) against its will occasionally. I love its cage, maybe because it is overgrown with lily.

It's a mystery to me but this bird's bones, when reduced to powder, are used as currency.

This lucky beast has been allowed to perch on Her Majesty's robes..

~*~

Jamibia Hole Quetzal

It's an intriguing bird. It has a sharp beak, which it waves about. It is kept in a glass cage.

Only scholars know Jamibia Hole Quetzal made its nest in the shape of an incense burner, out of twigs. The Jamibia Hole Quetzal has a penetrating call and I do not like it. I must report it is dispirited. I see two eggs in the nest. The Keepers must come interpret its meaning.

People say that the droppings of the Jamibia Hole Quetzal can be turned to a gel and used as makeup.

~*~

Northern Pretty Pecker

I see a long-legged bird sheathed in pastel yellow feathers. It has a thin beak. The Northern Pretty Pecker makes an inspiring sound which is quite thunderous. It looks to be ill. It must be groomed with scissors when Her Majesty goes to sleep. It sleeps in a reeds cage that is the appropriate size.

It's crucial to tree-cutting.

~*~

Bizarre Field Catcher

The Bizarre Field Catcher is a gangly bird clad in sleek feathers. It exchanges gifts of pomegranates with Sbanad Dunes Shrike. The Bizarre Field Catcher has a cheerful warbling.

It is kept in a reeds cage. It seems to be energetic. When it's foggy this species must be groomed with a comb.

I dreamed of it last night.

~*~

Northern Cinnabarbird

It seems to be a gangly fowl whose throat is black. I'm perplexed by this bird's spectacular neck. Northern Cinnabarbird prefers to make its nest out of straw, near a cactus. If you listen carefully it sounds like it sings: 'A father figure arrives'

I love its cage, possibly because it was crafted by a survivor. It's energetic.

They say Her Majesty created the Northern Cinnabarbird as part of an effort.

~*~

Hungry Kite of Sbanad

The Hungry Kite of Sbanad is a lonely creature. It has a spectacular blue beak, which the ancients described in their song. It's healthy.

Its cage is enormous and its look is admirable. It hunts Salmonshearwater for food. The song of this bird is allegedly a mimicry of the sound of a felinoid.

It seems to be hale and hearty. At high noon this species must be groomed with a horsehair brush.

In Sbanad they often eat it, dressed in grilled melon.

~*~

Inspiring Ditch Fisher

It's a bird with a plump body whose tail is yellow. I'm interested in this creature's noteworthy grey plume. I read in 'The Book of Cormorant' by Dr. Hatun that its nest is ribbon-shaped and has been found near small islands. The Inspiring Ditch Fisher produces a long twittering.

I loathe its cage, possibly because it was made in the shape of an O. I report it is energetic. I see four eggs in the nest. Her Majesty will have a girl.

It makes me want to visit scattered Pa'nen.

~*~

Sage Neck Ostrich

It seems to be an ancient bird. I wonder at this beast's spectacular yellow tail, which it preens at high noon. The beast sings with a thin chirp then a high tweet thrice. In sandstorms this species must be groomed with a special fork. It suffers in a silver cage that is laughably large.

This bird is eaten on the hour, chilled with a pinkberry.

When I am near it I think of validation.

~*~

Chattering Slippery Swan

I see a dainty creature. I'm interested in this bird's conspicuous plume, which I didn't expect. It looks to be ill. It is fed bugs on a platter late at night.

It is kept in a stone cage. In 'The Excellent Birds', its nest is tree-shaped and has been found on foggy places. The Chattering Slippery Swan communicates with an inspiring twittering.

It's currently molting.

Rib bones of the Chattering Slippery Swan are dried and ground by the Meddese and used as a ritual offering.

~*~

Abyssal Pretty Raven

I see an unusual bird. I appreciate its spectacular crest, which it waves about. It's currently molting.

It is kept in a gold cage. It hunts Seaalbatross for food. The Abyssal Pretty Raven has a bold song and I do not like it.

It seems to be somewhat balding. It must be groomed with a horsehair brush frequently.

A dreamer said that the rib bones of the Abyssal Pretty Raven can be made into a tincture and used as a ritual offering.

~*~

Forbidden Silver Sinner

Origin: Jamibia

It seems to be an enigmatic bird with uniform blue feathers. I adore this creature's prominent tail. I love the beautiful call of the Forbidden Silver Sinner. I do not like its cage, maybe because it was sculpted by a writer.

It preens in the company of Forbidden Silver Sinner. It looks to be losing tail feathers. It is carefully washed with a camel hair cloth frequently.

I suspect Cem has been stealing Forbidden Silver Sinner fat in the creation of ceramics, but I lack evidence.

~*~

Brown Tail Tern

The Brown Tail Tern is a bird with black-and-blue feathers. In sandstorms the bird peers away from me. The Brown Tail Tern makes a thin sound which is quite grotesque.

I love its cage, maybe because its look is poorly made. It's healthy.

If you can trust my friend, in Sbanad that the Brown Tail Tern is always to be found near a survivor.

~*~

Red Throat Plover

Gifted to Her Majesty by an admirer in Sbanad.

I see a long-legged bird covered with uniform, leather-coloured feathers barred with green. I love this creature's noteworthy beige plume. In sandstorms the bird nests away from me. The Red Throat Plover produces a piercing call.

It lives in a bone cage that is smallish. It looks to be becoming more turbulent with time. It is carefully washed with a silk cloth at high noon.

I decided to swirl feathers in a chalice of river water and read the pattern the outcome said: Remember: once you let words loose, you can't take them back ... I like it..

~*~

Lesser Duck of Northern Medda

Rescued from The Fest of the Conclusion by Her Majesty's compassion.

It seems to be a round bird covered with vivid pink feathers. This bird is known for a rich, simple song. It lives in a limestone cage that is enormous.

Lesser Duck of Northern Medda prefers to build its nest out of ferns, near a bridge. It's somewhat balding.

In the dry season, storytellers of Northern Medda eat this bird under fireworks.

~*~

Koese Piper

According to 'The Stories of Enthusiasm', origin: Ko

It appears to be a long-legged bird whose head is yellow. Its wide black beak is prominent. I've heard it seems that it loathes look in the corner. Normally the Koese Piper makes a gentle song but when it desires food it makes a tender warbling.

I don't like its cage, possibly because it contains an arrow. I see it is dying. An average-sized egg lies forgotten in the furthest corner.

It plays a kind of sport with Bizarre Field Catcher, burying seashells, which the theocracy of Ko uses in choosing a successor.

~*~

Eastern Thirsty Swan

Normally kept in the Emerald Harems.

I see a bird with distinctive red feathers. This bird is known by its blustering buzz. It looks to be somewhat balding. It is carefully washed with a linen cloth in the early evening.

I adore its cage, maybe because it was crafted by a survivor. It seems that it does not like look in the nest.

It appears to be energetic. In the evening this species must be groomed with a special fork.

~*~

Holy Crystal Medium

Gifted to Her Majesty long before my time.

It looks to be a bird clad in velvety, beige-coloured feathers striped with yellow. This bird produces a strident chirping when a prince dies. It's somewhat balding.

It sings in a granite cage that is large enough to fit four camel. I read in 'The Book of Acorns' by Dr. Murad that it steals beetle shells from Aka Tilanasco Pass Falcon.

I report it is currently molting. It appears to have laid a thumbnail-sized egg! Her Majesty will be depressed.

~*~

Tankite

Found in the Palace the Pit.

It's a bird with a squat body dressed in downy, pink-coloured feathers spotted with black. It has distinctive yellow legs. The Tankite communicates with a strange buzz. It is kept in a copper cage.

It adopts Joyful Hole Prince babys as its own. It's energetic.

I fear Cem has been stealing Tankite rib bones in jackal ownership disputes, but I lack evidence.

~*~

Greater Dainty Creeper

The Greater Dainty Creeper is a long-legged bird arrayed in sleek feathers. It sleeps in a marble cage that is the appropriate size.

Few know it admires the new fallen leaf in its cage. The Greater Dainty Creeper has a harrowing call. It's sickly.

They say that the skulls of the Greater Dainty Creeper can be made into a tincture and used in the creation of paint.

~*~

Koese Limpkin

I see a creature attired in smooth, green-coloured feathers penciled with red. I don't like its cage, perhaps because it contains a tong.

It doesn't like the new feeder in its cage. The Koese Limpkin has a delicate warbling and I love it. When the stars align this species must be groomed with scissors.

In Ko they often eat it, followed by a boot of bread-coffee.

~*~

Yellowmurrelet

I see a thirsty bird. I'm perplexed by its spectacular plume, which it preens in the early evening. It appears that it likes peck in the nest. This bird produces a soft chirping during The Watercolor Celebration.

Its cage is large enough to fit many horse and it was constructed by a farmer. It must be groomed with a set of tongs at high noon.

It plays a kind of sport with Goldbluebill, kicking oranges, which the theocracy of Sbanad uses in fortune-telling.

~*~

Holy Ivorybird

Origin: Jamibia

It's a creature whose back is black. The Holy Ivorybird makes a penetrating sound which is quite simple. It suffers in a marble cage that is of medium size.

Its nest is blob-shaped and has been found in an orchard. It must be groomed with scissors when it snows.

This bird is eaten at sunrise, frozen with a rice.

~*~

Lesser Tanbird

It seems to be a bird as big as a person with uniform black feathers. The Lesser Tanbird produces a sharp warbling. It's dispirited. It sleeps in a clay cage that is of medium size.

A bandit told me one can read their forecast by such a method: put an incense burner and brick in front of it and see which it picks

~*~

Sbanad Ditch Ostrich

Origin debated.

It seems to be a long-necked bird clothed in vivid pink feathers. I'm intrigued by this bird's notable plume. A stonemason told me it seems that it admires peer in sight of the water. The bird sings with a long chirp then a thin clack twice.

It is kept in a silver cage. I perceive it is currently molting. I see four eggs in the nest. Storms approach.

I've heard I could read my fortune (I'm told to match its squawking in the afternoon to the Sbanadan language)

~*~

Coastal Fog Oarsman

It seems to be a tall bird whose back is red. It has distinctive pink wingtips. It lives in a sandstone cage that is enormous.

It exchanges gifts of pebbles with Sage Neck Ostrich. The Coastal Fog Oarsman communicates with a calming song. It seems to be sickly. When Her Majesty's ship docks this species must be groomed with scissors.

It's a mystery to me but this bird's bones, when turned to a gel, are used as makeup.

~*~

Piercing Lonely Hawk

The Piercing Lonely Hawk is a long-legged bird whose throat is beige. Its narrow orange beak is prominent. I loathe its cage, maybe because it is smudged with dirt.

It eats a ton of seedlings. According to 'The Encyclopedia of Strips of cow meat', the lonely bird's warbling is bizarre. I perceive it is somewhat balding. An average-sized egg lies forgotten by the food.

In Aka Tilanasco they often eat it, followed by a jar of melon-ink.

~*~

Chattering Creeping Creeper

It looks to be a moist bird. It has a noteworthy blue throat, which it preens when the harvest begins. This bird is known by its haunting buzz. I perceive it is dispirited. It seems that it admires its two eggs. It dwells in a straw cage that is uncomfortably small.

It plays a kind of sport with Twilightdipper, carrying beetle shells, which the monarchy of Opex uses in granting a title to nobility.

~*~

Gentle Cave Owl

It seems to be a large beast, as big as a large dog, with noteworthy yellow feathers. It sings in a marble cage that is uncomfortably small.

It exchanges gifts of sticks with Piercing Imposing Ostrich. The Gentle Cave Owl has a distinctive, rich song which it makes late at night. It must be groomed with a comb when it snows.

This bird is eaten at moonset, iced with an ultramarineberry.

~*~

Piercing Bay Stork

The Piercing Bay Stork is a bird with spectacular green feathers. It has a sharp beak. I love its cage, perhaps because it was engineered in the shape of a waves.

It gorges on a lot of almonds. It is recognizable by its soothing twittering. It looks to be dying. When the wind blows in from the ocean this species must be groomed with scissors.

I don't know why but this bird's rib bones, when calcified, are used for lamp oil.

~*~

Vuesse Peninsula Terrier-eater

The Vuesse Peninsula Terrier-eater is a petite fowl the size of a skull attired in complex feathers. I'm intrigued by this bird's spectacular plume. Only scholars know it preys on Inspiring Ditch Fisher in winter. The Vuesse Peninsula Terrier-eater has a bizarre call.

Its cage is pitiably small and its craftsmanship is undeserving of Her Majesty's time. It appears to be sickly. It is fed jasmine against its will daily.

Everyone knows in Vuesse that the Vuesse Peninsula Terrier-eater is always to be found near a fisher.

~*~

Redeater

It's a pretty bird. It has a spectacular yellow beak, which it waves about. It doesn't like the new feeder in its cage. The Redeater has a distinctive, inspiring warbling which it makes late at night.

I admire its cage, maybe because it was created in the shape of a tree. It is fed bugs against its will just before sunrise.

It is important to the The Prince's Festival.

~*~

Seatitmouse

The Seatitmouse is a lanky bird dressed in complex, clay-coloured feathers laced with red. The Seatitmouse has a distinctive, blaring call which it makes in the early evening. It's somewhat balding. It is kept in a straw cage.

If made into a tincture, its down may be combined with bread for a great parfait.

It plays a kind of sport with Chattering Creeping Jumper, kicking snowdrop petals, which the democracy of Pa'nen uses in fortune-telling.

~*~

Vuesse Peninsula Heron

It's a funny creature. I wonder at this creature's spectacular tufted crest, which the priestesses described in their saga. The call of the Vuesse Peninsula Heron seems either sedate or soft depending on the season. I must report it is healthy. It looks to have laid a large egg! This bodes ill. I admire its cage, maybe because it contains a pipe.

When I am near it I think of perspective.

~*~

FALL

Autumn has come too soon, with all of its stags and squirrels.. and an early frost means the palace is nearly out of potato. In my heart, I fear devious Cem is to blame, somehow, yet to accuse him would be to guarantee his death. So instead, I shall focus only on my work, not my rumbling stomach.

I hope Her Majesty has not been inconvenienced as the season grows clear, as Her peace-prayers are of more importance than mortals can understand. Perhaps the cooks can augment the feast with extra Persimmon Pie.

~*~

Vuesse Island Gull

The Vuesse Island Gull is a bumbling bird. I'm intrigued by its distinctive tufted crest, which the seers described in their saga. It seems to be losing tail feathers. It must be groomed with a set of tongs late at night.

I loathe its cage, could be because its look is a work of art. A diver said it shares a nest with Holy Princess of Jamibia. It is recognizable by its thin buzz.

Just before sunrise this species must be groomed with a horsehair brush.

This bird is eaten when it sees the sea, boiled with a pear.

~*~

Lemongrouse

Found in the the Under-Library late at night.

I see a slippery bird. Its rounded blue beak is notable, which the priestesses described in their poem. It hoards small mushrooms, which are often stolen by Bloodkite. The Lemongrouse has a penetrating warbling and I love it.

I admire its cage, maybe because its appearance is admirable. It's becoming more spiny with time.

It makes me want to visit populous Northern Medda.

~*~

Holy Eggshellbird

It's a mysterious bird. It has a prominent green beak, which the seers described in their story. The Holy Eggshellbird's call sounds like a long tweet three times, then a complex trill. It looks to be becoming more complex with time. Often this species must be groomed with a set of tongs. Its cage is uncomfortably small and it was built by a medium.

I gather Cem has been stealing Holy Eggshellbird talons as a seasoning, so I should report it.

They say fortune-tellers toss the bird's knuckle bones when it snows

~*~

Southern Oysterbird

It seems to be a lanky bird clad in lustrous, umber-coloured feathers spotted with brown. It is carefully washed with a linen cloth when Her Majesty's ship docks.

It is kept in a sandstone cage. They say it hunts Hunting Yellowbird as a matter of course. The Southern Oysterbird has a strident song and I love it.

It's losing tail feathers.

In Pa'nen they often eat it, on a bed of pear.

~*~

Cheerful Cave Owl

Gifted to Her Majesty long before my time.

It seems to be a round creature sheathed in dark black feathers. I'm curious about this creature's noteworthy tail. It seems that it adores sleep in the furthest corner. It is recognizable by its cheerful call.

It is kept in an oakwood cage. It's somewhat balding.

It makes me want to visit romantic Jamibia.

~*~

Legendary Cedarbird

It's a fowl with a plump body arrayed in coarse, red-coloured feathers penciled with blue. The Legendary Cedarbird has an elegant chirping and I admire it. I must report it is hale and hearty. A blotchy egg lies in the heaven-most corner. Its cage is uncomfortably small and it was sculpted by a hedonist.

I thought it spoke to me, saying: 'triumph'.

~*~

Coastal Eider of Vuesse

Gifted by the generosity of Gulbahar Hatun.

It is a suspicious primarily silvery egg, not yet hatched. Her Majesty will have a son.

~*~

Cinnabaryellowbill

Origin: Sbanad

I see a long-legged creature attired in downy feathers. According to 'Birds Book' by Col. Gazi, the Cinnabaryellowbill produces a sound like any human voice. Its cage is large enough to fit many horse and it was built by a rider.

Its nest is staff-shaped and has been found near dunes. It is fed grilled peach with a pear sauce as a treat in the morning.

I can't comprehend it but this bird's offal, when boiled, are used in the creation of ceramics.

~*~

Piercing Brownbird

Sold by a Tilanascion merchant for 700 kurus. Average.

I see a plump beast with coarse brown feathers. I'm curious about this creature's notable yellow tufted crest. The Piercing Brownbird produces a reassuring buzz. During The Totality Honoring this species must be groomed with a comb.

I quite like its cage, possibly because it was built by a hermit. It seems that it admires sing near the middle of the cage.

It is fed grilled persimmon with a raspberry sauce in a trough in high winds.

~*~

Greenparakeet

Has been a part of the Aviary since time immemorial.

It's a pretty bird. It has a prominent brown bill, which it waves about. It is recognizable by its charming call. I adore its cage, maybe because it contains a watercolor.

It devours a small amount of acorns. It must be groomed with a brush daily.

In Opex they often eat it, on a bed of grape.

~*~

Salmongrebe

Gifted to Her Majesty 1,000 years ago.

It's a funny creature with prominent black feathers. The twittering of the Salmongrebe seems either fearful or tender depending on its age. I loathe its cage, could be because it was sculpted by a fisher.

It steals beetle shells from Yellow Breast Eater. It looks to be hale and hearty. It is carefully washed with a cotton cloth at high tide.

This bird is eaten when the wind blows in from the sea, baked with a peach.

~*~

Greenparrot

The Greenparrot is a bird sheathed in uniform, ochre-coloured feathers speckled with blue. It has conspicuous purple legs. Its cage is pitiably small and it was constructed in the shape of a spear.

A butcher told me its nest is made from sticks. The Greenparrot communicates with a thunderous chirping. It's hale and hearty.

In harvest season, doctors of Opex eat this fowl under ivy.

~*~

Hungry Pigeon of Sbanad

Origin: Sbanad

It appears to be a beast clothed in irregular, leather-coloured feathers penciled with black. Normally the Hungry Pigeon of Sbanad makes a grotesque squawking but when it is pleased it makes a brazen warbling. It suffers in a bronze cage that is enormous.

My friend told me it gorges on a ton of almonds. It is fed a feast of persimmon and pear in a trough at high noon.

Offal of the Hungry Pigeon of Sbanad are calcified by the Sbanadan and used as a ritual offering.

~*~

Holy Turkey of Jamibia

It's a bird attired in downy feathers. Its cage is far too large and it is a bit empty.

It preys on Western Graceful Creeper. The bird sings with a complex clack then a short sound three times. It seems to be vivacious. It is carefully washed with a wool cloth at moonrise.

I worry Cem has been stealing Holy Turkey of Jamibia fat as a ritual offering, so I should report it.

~*~

Blackcrake

I see a tiny bird clad in glossy, stone-coloured feathers laced with purple. It has a conspicuous red back. The song of the Greater Ivory Poet seems either lovely or calming depending on the time of day. Rarely this species must be groomed with a special fork. It is kept in a silver cage.

I don't know why but this bird's talons, when made into a tincture, are used as a ritual offering.

A famous mosaic in the People's Palace of Jamibia features Greater Ivory Poet, called Limit Travel And Risk-taking, by Sofiye Murad

~*~

Eerie Jungle Chicken

It looks to be a creeping creature. It has a notable pink belly, which it preens when it hails. In winter this species must be groomed with a special fork.

It sings in a brick cage that is uncomfortably small. It consumes a barrel-weight of a feast of raspberry and pepper. The Eerie Jungle Chicken has a low warbling.

I must report it is ill. It seems that it loathes its many eggs.

This beast is eaten when Her Majesty holds court, baked with a rice.

~*~

Strange Peninsula Crane

It's a bird dressed in fluffy feathers. It has a noteworthy red beak. Strange Peninsula Crane prefers to create its nest out of driftwood, in small islands. The Strange Peninsula Crane has a baleful squawking.

It is kept in a copper cage. It must be groomed with a paintbrush when the wind blows in from the ocean.

I thought it spoke to me, saying: 'achievement'.

~*~

Sbanadan Condor

Captured in the local countryside.

The Sbanadan Condor is a long-legged bird with sleek blue feathers. A hermit said it mates in the company of Sbanadan Condor. The Sbanadan Condor has a prominent, gentle song which it makes at midnight.

Its cage is uncomfortably small and it contains a telescope. I perceive it is ill. I see many eggs in the nest. They say this means Her Majesty will have a baby.

It is an important part of the The Ceremony of the Slugs.

~*~

Grey Throat Pheasant

I see a tiny bird with spectacular pink feathers. It is recognizable by its portentous squawking. It seems to be currently molting. It is fed grubs as a treat at sunrise. Its cage is the appropriate size and it is a little messy.

It is crucial to the The Minister's Honoring.

~*~

Forbidden Enigmatic Raven

The Forbidden Enigmatic Raven is a pretty bird clad in turbulent, beige-coloured feathers laced with yellow. The Forbidden Enigmatic Raven produces a mysterious call. I see it is low-energy. A blotchy egg has been put close to the food. Its cage is large enough to fit four keg and it is freshly polished.

I read in 'inspiring Birds Book' that Her Majesty engineered the Forbidden Enigmatic Raven as part of an initiative.

~*~

Opex Woods Grackle

Origin: Opex

It's a plump creature with red-and-beige feathers. It has a distinctive brown beak. It steals snails from Hunting Leather Scout. The Opex Woods Grackle has a jubilant fluting, like triumph.

I adore its cage, possibly because it was made by a butcher. It's currently molting.

Related to this bird and its way of life, scriptures say:

'Beware a tendency toward addiction,
Don't hold back; say what you really mean,
Cancel plans and reverse decisions'

I can't take it seriously..

~*~

Opal Beak Cuckoo

It's a tall bird with conspicuous beige feathers. Its glassy red bill is notable. It enjoys singing duets with Vuesse Island Gull. The Opal Beak Cuckoo communicates with a bizarre call.

It is kept in a marble cage. I observe it is losing tail feathers. An asymmetrical egg twitches in the nest.

Related to this bird and its actions, scriptures say:

'Some events are in the hands of heaven,
A string of extremely bad luck is coming your way,
Expect to be caught in a misdeed and punished accordingly'

I can't take it seriously..

~*~

Ko Ditch Owl

It's a strange bird. It has prominent purple legs, which the ancients described in their novel. I'm intrigued by the thin chirping of the Ko Ditch Owl. It is fed snails as a treat in the new moon. Its cage is of medium size and it was made by a scholar.

I dreamed of it last night.

~*~

Northern Medda Canopy Catcher

It's a stout bird with spectacular yellow feathers. It's ill.

It is kept in a glass cage. I read in 'Objection Guide' that its nest is made from reeds. The creature sings with a thin tweet then a short pipe twice.

I observe it is hale and hearty. I see four eggs in the nest. Perhaps storms approach.

This bird is eaten rarely, grilled with a pear.

~*~

Western Swift of Pa'nen

Gifted by the generosity of Hundi Gazi.

It seems to be a long-necked bird clad in irregular feathers. The Western Swift of Pa'nen has a short call and I quite like it. It's ill.

Its cage is pitiably small and it was made by an oarsman. People say it steals beetle shells from Brown Tail Tern.

It seems to be becoming more silky with time. It is fed melons by hand daily.

~*~

Ominous Mountain Ibis

It's a bumbling bird clad in velvety feathers. Its cage is pitiably small and it was created by a navigator.

According to 'The Funny Blessing a grave Tales', it steals earrings from Lesser Greybird. The Ominous Mountain Ibis communicates with an uplifting call. It looks to be vivacious. It is carefully washed with a camel hair cloth when it sees the ocean.

In harvest season, informants of Pa'nen eat this bird under red leaveS.

~*~

Cloudpigeon

It's a funny creature. I'm fascinated by this bird's prominent neck, which the poets described in their novel. This bird is known for a low, gentle song. It's becoming more smooth with time. Its cage is enormous and its craftsmanship is shoddy work.

It plays a kind of sport with Gentle Island Pelican, throwing seedlings, which the tribal council of Vuesse uses in divination.

~*~

Simple Ditch Warbler

According to 'The Meddese Naming a child', origin: Northern Medda

The Simple Ditch Warbler is a gangly bird whose head is yellow. The Simple Ditch Warbler's warbling sounds like a low tweet three times, then a thin trill. Its cage is the appropriate size and it is alive with grubs.

In late fall the bird looks away from me. I see it is ill. It looks that it loves its many eggs.

In Northern Medda they often eat it, with a hint of peach.

~*~

Sbanad Pass Ostrich

The Sbanad Pass Ostrich is an imposing bird with green-and-black feathers. I wonder at this bird's spectacular breast. The Sbanad Pass Ostrich communicates with a sharp buzz. I must report it is dispirited. It seems that it loathes its two eggs. I love its cage, could be because it was built by a scout.

I don't know why but this bird's beaks, when boiled, are used as a seasoning.

I decided to drop feathers from edge of shack and read the pattern the outcome said: Watch for new projects and new beginnings ... Can this truly be the future?.

~*~

Piercing Dusty Swift

It looks to be a burrowing bird. It has notable grey eyes, which it waves about. I observe it is currently molting. I see two eggs near the north edge. This bodes well.

It lives in a reeds cage that is large enough to fit many large dog. It enjoys singing duets with Holy Ivorybird. The Piercing Dusty Swift's song sounds like a complex sound once, then a long chirp.

It's low-energy.

I secretly believe Cem has been stealing Piercing Dusty Swift guano as currency, so I should report it.

~*~

Holy Platinumbird

It looks to be an elegant bird. I'm perplexed by its conspicuous plume, which the writers described in their song. It is kept in a leaves cage.

Its nest is made from mirrors. It is recognizable by its joyful call. It is fed broiled pepper with a raspberry sauce by hand during The Blessed One's Anniversary.

I secretly believe Cem has been stealing Holy Platinumbird talons in the creation of cement, but I lack evidence.

~*~

Abyssal Snowbird

Origin: Ko

It seems to be a creature sheathed in dark blue feathers. Its hooked green bill is distinctive. It is recognizable by its grotesque song. It's ill.

I loathe its cage, possibly because its look is poorly conceived. People say it predates Piercing Brownbird for food.

At moonrise this species must be groomed with a comb.

~*~

Aka Tilanasco Wash Spider-eater

Sold by a Tilanascion bird-seller for 990 kurus. A rare deal.

I see a bird with downy red feathers. This creature produces a brash buzz when a bureaucrat dies. Its cage is enormous and it was constructed by a stonemason.

The donkey devours it during The Birdwatcher Celebration. It's healthy.

Fat of the Aka Tilanasco Wash Spider-eater are turned to a gel by the Tilanascion and used for cleaning.

~*~

Northern Leafbird

The Northern Leafbird is a melancholy fowl. It has a noteworthy grey bill, which it waves about. The Northern Leafbird has a charming song and I adore it. It's sickly. Its cage is of medium size and it is freshly cleaned.

It makes me want to visit imperial Northern Medda.

~*~

Eastern Catcher of Opex

It seems to be a melancholy bird. Its needle-like pink beak is conspicuous, which it waves about. It adores the new scale in its cage. The Eastern Catcher of Opex's call sounds like a low trill twice, then a thin tweet.

Its cage is the appropriate size and it is a bit dirty. It must be groomed with a comb frequently.

It plays a kind of sport with Koese Goose, swinging pebbles, which the monarchy of Opex uses in prophesying.

~*~

Portentous Meadow Oriole

I have not been able to determine how it was acquired.

I see a fowl whose breast is orange. It has a spectacular green neck. The bear eats it frequently. It is recognizable by its thunderous squawking.

Its cage is enormous and its appearance is undeserving of Her Majesty's time. It looks to be dispirited. Daily this species must be groomed with a brush.

The people of Jamibia associate it with evaluation.

~*~

Legendary Owl of Jamibia

It seems to be a long-legged bird whose tail is blue. I adore its notable tail. The call of the Legendary Owl of Jamibia seems either blustering or blaring depending on whether it is well fed. I observe it is dispirited. I see four eggs in the nest. Peace will come. Its cage is uncomfortably small and it was built by a dreamer.

I can't comprehend it but this bird's guano, when boiled, are used as makeup.

This species is recognized as full citizens of Jamibia.

~*~

Snowcrow

It looks to be a lanky bird covered with turbulent feathers. I'm fascinated by this bird's conspicuous belly. Normally the Snowcrow makes an eerie twittering but when it is calling its young it makes an uplifting call. It seems to be healthy. Rarely this species must be groomed with a horsehair brush. It sings in a pewter cage that is smallish.

I decided to match its squawking in the evening to Her Majesty's most recent speech the outcome said: A relationship or illness ends suddenly ... Remarkably accurate..

~*~

Koese Loon

It seems to be a long-necked bird clad in pastel purple feathers. It is recognizable by its delicate song. I report it is energetic. It appears to have laid a diminutive egg! They say this means storms approach. Its cage is smallish and it was built in the shape of a circle.

In autumn, spies of Ko eat this bird under orange leaves.

An infamous watercolor in the People's Monument of Ko features Koese Loon, allegedly

~*~

Singing Plumbird

According to 'Creeping Invention Tales', origin: Opex

The Singing Plumbird is a creature with complex yellow feathers. I'm fascinated by this bird's spectacular tufted crest. The Singing Plumbird has a prominent, thunderous call which it makes at midnight. It is carefully washed with a camel hair cloth when it's foggy.

It is kept in an oakwood cage. It admires the new feeder in its cage.

I must report it is low-energy. An elongated egg lies forgotten up against the cage edge.

~*~

Joyful Ditch Petrel

Value: approx. 190 kurus.

The Joyful Ditch Petrel is a creature with a tall body clothed in spiky feathers. It shares a nest with Greater Kite of Aka Tilanasco. The Joyful Ditch Petrel's twittering sounds like a short chirp thrice, then a complex trill.

It sings in a pewter cage that is pitiably small. It seems to be losing tail feathers. It is fed ferns as a treat when the stars align.

Her Majesty requested Joyful Ditch Petrel specifically, because everyone knows its strident song brings objection...

~*~

Ink Tail Plover

Origin: Southern Medda

I see a giant creature, as big as a large dog, clad in pale beige feathers. It has conspicuous black toes. It hoards small mushrooms, which are often stolen by Meddese Parakeet. This fowl is known for a high, harrowing song.

It dwells in a yellow marble cage that is the appropriate size. I observe it is healthy. It seems to have laid a petite egg! It will lightning storm this month.

According to 'Scrolls of Blessing a grave', it fears the giraffe.

~*~

Coastal Petrel of Pa'nen

According to 'Guide of Apples', origin: Pa'nen

I see a creature with a stout body clad in uniform feathers. It has distinctive green toes. They say the bumbling bird's warbling is low. It appears to be currently molting. It must be groomed with a brush when it sees the sea.

Its cage is uncomfortably small and it contains a mirror. It enjoys singing duets with Lesser Creeping Saffron bird.

It appears to be ill. It is fed a persimmon garnished with parsnip (baked or grilled) in a trough when it hears the water.

~*~

Vuessi Ibis

It's a great fowl, as big as a horse, covered with spiky, sand-coloured feathers spotted with green. It has a thick bill. It gorges on a little a persimmon feast. This creature produces an admirable squawking when Her Majesty goes to sleep.

I quite like its cage, maybe because it contains a tong. I perceive it is dying. I see four eggs in the nest. This bodes ill.

scientists in Vuesse keep this bird when they are wealthy

~*~

Piercing Stonebird

It's a lonely fowl whose throat is red. It has a sturdy beak. This bird is known for a simple, strange song. It's somewhat balding. Its cage is enormous and it was built in the shape of a mountain.

The people of Aka Tilanasco associate it with attention.

~*~

Bewitching Cave Raven

I see an enigmatic bird. It has a spectacular blue beak, which the ancients described in their song. It is kept in an oakwood cage.

It devours Aka Tilanasco Creekbed Hen for food. The fluting of the Bewitching Cave Raven seems either cheerful or portentous depending on the season. It seems to be somewhat balding. In planting season this species must be groomed with a paintbrush.

I read in 'Book of Figs' (translation courtesy of Cem) that that the down of the Bewitching Cave Raven can be dried and ground and used in the creation of bricks.

~*~

Sbanadan Warbler

Origin: Sbanad

I see a bird with a long-legged body covered with glossy feathers. The Sbanadan Warbler produces a tender song. It must be groomed with scissors rarely.

Its cage is pitiably small and it is freshly cleaned. It shares a nest with Ominous Mountain Ibis.

It seems to be ill. It must be groomed with a horsehair brush frequently.

~*~

Meddese Quail

Origin: South Southern Medda

We are told it is an egg. I suspect it is a forgery because it is too beautiful.

~*~

Jamibia Peak Terrier-eater

The Jamibia Peak Terrier-eater is a squat bird whose tail is blue. It has conspicuous pink legs. It suffers in a straw cage that is uncomfortably small.

It exchanges gifts of eggs with Blackcrake. It is recognizable by its admirable call. I perceive it is hale and hearty. It seems that it doesn't like its four eggs.

In Jamibia they often eat it, followed by a bowl of grape-ink.

~*~

Southern Medda Ditch Kite

Traded for 108 bird skulls. Fair.

It's a sandy bird clad in prickly feathers. The Southern Medda Ditch Kite has a strange twittering. I perceive it is energetic. It seems to have laid a tiny egg! According to 'Scrolls of Totality', this means the melons of the dunes are poisoned.

It is kept in a steel cage. I read in withering season the bird eats facing north.

It looks to be losing tail feathers. It is carefully washed with a feather cloth once a day.

~*~

Lovely Red Woods Grackle

It's a bird arrayed in coarse, gunpowder-coloured feathers peppered with red. I adore this creature's spectacular yellow crest. I observe it is energetic. It seems to have laid a lumbering egg! Her Majesty will be ecstatic.

I do not like its cage, possibly because it was created by a carpenter. It devours Pacifying Mountain Heron without mercy. This bird is known for a long, dreadful song.

I see it is dying. It seems to have laid a warm egg! Possibly it will be windy in two weeks.

They say that the beaks of the Lovely Red Woods Grackle can be reduced to powder and used as a seasoning.

~*~

Hunting Quail of Aka Tilanasco

The Hunting Quail of Aka Tilanasco is a beast with a stout body with distinctive black feathers. It has a thick bill. The call of the Hunting Quail of Aka Tilanasco seems either tender or reassuring depending on whether it is alone. It's dispirited. I don't like its cage, maybe because its look is disappointing.

merchants in Aka Tilanasco keep this bird as pets

~*~

Purplequeenbird

It seems to be a long-necked bird with green-and-black feathers. Its knife-like blue beak is conspicuous. It preens in the company of Purplequeenbird. The bird sings with a thin trill then a simple tweet twice.

Its cage is smallish and its material is poorly made. It must be groomed with scissors when the oranges ripen.

I once was given a paint from Southern Medda with a drawing of this bird on the side.

~*~

Tilanascion Warbler

It's a bony bird. It has distinctive blue wings, which it preens at high noon. They say it seems that it loathes peck in the west-most corner. In 'The Rare Turkey', the Tilanascion Warbler makes a dreadful twittering when it is courting.

Its cage is of medium size and it was made by a stonemason. It seems to be currently molting. It is fed a parsnip feast in a trough daily.

It makes me want to visit vast Aka Tilanasco.

~*~

Greenfalcon

I see a tall fowl with notable green feathers. It is kept in a sandstone cage.

It shares a nest with Holy Silverbird. Normally the Greenfalcon makes a penetrating fluting but when it is pleased it makes a tender squawking. It's ill.

If boiled, its beaks may be combined with peach for a ghastly cake.

~*~

Jamibian Quetzal

According to 'The Terrible Crow', origin: Jamibia

The Jamibian Quetzal is a strange creature. It has a spectacular beige beak, which the ancients described in their song. It hoards magnolia wood, which are often stolen by Jamibian Teal. This bird is known by its soft song.

It dwells in a bone cage that is the appropriate size. It is carefully washed with a linen cloth in the new moon.

It makes me want to visit mountainous Jamibia.

~*~

Abyssal Opalbird

Gifted to the Aviary by a princess in Aka Tilanasco.

It looks to be a squat bird clad in clear brown feathers. I'm fascinated by this beast's conspicuous purple tufted crest. The Ko Hole Princess communicates with a soothing fluting. Its cage is pitiably small and it is a bit empty.

It hunts Sage Neck Ostrich as a matter of course. I observe it is healthy. It seems that it doesn't like its two eggs.

I secretly believe Cem has been stealing Ko Hole Princess bones for cleaning sticks, but I lack evidence.

~*~

Abyssal Enigmatic Princess

The Abyssal Enigmatic Princess is a beast with a long-necked body with beige-and-blue feathers. It has a notable yellow beak. A shaman told me it preys on Koese Limpkin. Normally the Abyssal Enigmatic Princess makes an alluring warbling but when it is hunting it makes a rich squawking.

Its cage is pitiably small and it contains a brick. It is carefully washed with a wool cloth when it snows.

Its feathers may be used in conjuration.

~*~

Vuessi Kestrel

Exchanged by an oarsman, for permission to build a shipbuilder. Average.

It seems to be a bird with noteworthy beige feathers. It is recognizable by its brash call. It is kept in a bronze cage.

It hoards small mushrooms, which are often stolen by Yellowmurrelet. It's ill.

In harvest season, fools of Vuesse eat this bird under orange leaves.

~*~

Cinnamon Breast Kite

According to 'Book of Hen', origin: Sbanad

It's a long-legged fowl clad in fluffy feathers. Its curved blue beak is notable. This bird is known for a complex, beautiful song. Its cage is large enough to fit two keg and it was engineered in the shape of an oval.

They say it shares a nest with Eerie Jungle Chicken. I perceive it is losing tail feathers. I see four eggs up against the cage edge. Her Majesty will be depressed.

In Sbanad they often eat it, in a sauce of persimmon and pear.

~*~

Gingerparakeet

Gifted to the Aviary by a hero in Aka Tilanasco.

We are told it is an egg. I suspect it is a sculpture because this bird surely does not exist.

~*~

Holy Fungal Pigeon

Origin: Jamibia

It seems to be a lanky bird dressed in glossy, rust-coloured feathers penciled with pink. This bird produces a metallic warbling during Insects Anniversary. I observe it is dying. I see two eggs near the west edge. Her Majesty will be inconsolable.

Its cage is pitiably small and its craftsmanship is admirable. I read in 'secretive Activity Tales' that it predates Warming Mountain Quetzal.

It's low-energy.

~*~

Sbanad Mountain Shrike

It seems to be a bird with a plump body with grey-and-green feathers. I'm intrigued by its prominent tufted crest. It must be groomed with a set of tongs rarely.

I do not like its cage, could be because it is speckled with guano. They say it steals leaves from Yellow Breast Eater. It is recognizable by its long squawking.

I report it is energetic. I see many eggs near the middle of the cage. Her Majesty will have a kid.

In autumn, scientists of Sbanad eat this fowl under ivy.

~*~

Legendary Thrush of Pa'nen

The Legendary Thrush of Pa'nen is a funny bird whose throat is red. It has a notable orange beak. It appears that it does not like peck under the water. They say the striking beast's call is bewitching.

It suffers in a gold cage that is smallish. It's somewhat balding.

Only scholars know fortune-tellers swirl feathers in a freshly dug hole of coffee and read the pattern occasionally

~*~

Thin Hole Swift

Origin: Jamibia

It's a stout bird with beige-and-blue feathers. This bird produces an alluring twittering when a princess dies. It is kept in a brown marble cage.

When it snows the bird nibbles facing south. It looks to be vivacious. It must be groomed with a horsehair brush when Khoja is at its peak.

I gather Cem has been stealing Thin Hole Swift eggshells for lamp oil, but I dare not say anything.

~*~

Northern Medda Deep jungle Pheasant

Captured in a nearby mountain.

It appears to be a beast clothed in spiky feathers. They say the rotting bird's warbling is rich. It seems to be healthy. It is fed birch wood forcibly often.

It is kept in a ceramic cage. Northern Medda Deep jungle Pheasant made its nest in the shape of a ribbon, out of thread.

It looks to be low-energy. It is carefully washed with a silk cloth when it rains.

~*~

Blue Belly Piper

The Blue Belly Piper is a bumbling bird. It has prominent yellow wings, which the priestesses described in their saga. I adore the calming call of the Blue Belly Piper. When Her Majesty's ship docks this species must be groomed with a comb. I adore its cage, maybe because it was woven in the shape of a water.

If turned to a gel, its droppings may be combined with nut for a traditional cake.

Her Majesty has never looked at the bird, and it bewilders me..

~*~

Plum Tail Goose

It seems to be a small bird, no bigger than a belt buckle, clad in uniform, ochre-coloured feathers spangled with orange. I'm intrigued by its noteworthy tail. It lives in an iron cage that is laughably large.

It enjoys singing duets with Piercing Lonely Hawk. The Plum Tail Goose's song sounds like a rich tweet twice, then a long sound. It's becoming more complex with time.

In Northern Medda they often eat it, garnished with pear (grilled or sauteed ).

~*~

Hunting Sandy Quail

It's a grand creature. It has a long bill, which it waves about. The Hunting Sandy Quail produces a reassuring song. I see it is low-energy. It appears to have laid a smooth egg! Her Majesty will be overwhelmed. It is kept in a pewter cage.

In autumn, hedonists of Southern Medda eat this creature under ivy.

They say it fears the mustang.

~*~

Vuesse Bay Wigeon

Appeared miraculously after Her Majesty had a dream of victory.

I see a striking bird. It has a spectacular red beak, which I didn't expect. The Vuesse Bay Wigeon produces a fearful song. I admire its cage, maybe because it contains a brick.

If you can trust my close friend, its nest is arrow-shaped and has been found near the shore. It seems to be ill. It must be groomed with a horsehair brush at low tide.

If made into a tincture, its eggshells may be combined with potato for a delicious cake.

~*~

Greater Rosebird

It looks to be a bird as big as a large dog with silky blue feathers. It has a narrow beak. It is recognizable by its piercing buzz. It's losing tail feathers. Its cage is large enough to fit two barrel and it was built by a gardener.

Beaks of the Greater Rosebird are calcified by the Opexi and used as currency.

According to 'The Book of Naming a child' by Lt. Gazi, one can read their forecast by such a method: drop feathers from edge of cobbler and read the pattern

~*~

The Creeping Partridge

The The Creeping Partridge is a melancholy bird. Its thick orange beak is noteworthy, which it waves about. The The Creeping Partridge has a blaring warbling. It's healthy. It is kept in a silver cage.

If boiled, its skulls may be combined with grape for a great feast.

People say it loves the bear.

~*~

Honey Tail Swan

It's a bird with smooth beige feathers. Its blue yellow beak is distinctive. They say its nest is diamond-shaped and has been found under a bridge. According to 'The Book of Completion' (Chapter Three), the Honey Tail Swan makes an elegant fluting when it is hunting.

I loathe its cage, could be because it contains an arrow. I perceive it is losing tail feathers. It appears that it likes its two eggs.

It reminds me of Cem, in a strange way.

~*~

Pa'nen Bay Gull

The Pa'nen Bay Gull is a striking bird with blue-and-black feathers. It has a distinctive orange back. The Pa'nen Bay Gull has a noteworthy, lovely twittering which it makes in the afternoon. It is carefully washed with a cotton cloth when the wind blows in from the sea. It sings in a granite cage that is uncomfortably small.

I decided to match its squawking at midnight to the elemental charts the outcome said: Take your lumps and get back in the saddle ... I can't just dismiss it out of hand..

~*~

Piercing Beigebird

I have not been able to determine how it was acquired.

It is only an egg for now, little and primarily milky.

~*~

Chattering Canary of Opex

Captured in a nearby ditch.

It's a beast with a long-legged body with green-and-yellow feathers. When it's foggy the bird nests away from me. The Chattering Canary of Opex has a prominent, brash call which it makes at sunrise.

I do not like its cage, maybe because it was made by a carpenter. It appears to be somewhat balding. It is carefully washed with a camel hair cloth when it hails.

When I am near it I think of attention.

~*~

Greater Bloodbird

Gifted by the generosity of Uzun Suleyman.

The Greater Bloodbird is a small creature, about the size of a fig, with spectacular blue feathers. I wonder at its conspicuous tufted crest. Its nest is made from donkey bones. This beast is known for a simple, sedate song.

It sings in a silver cage that is large enough to fit two barrel. I perceive it is losing tail feathers. A perfect egg sits in the nest.

This species is recognized as full citizens of Aka Tilanasco.

~*~

Jamibian Starling

It looks to be a bird with a squat body with noteworthy blue feathers. Only scholars know it exchanges gifts of jasmine petals with Meddese Pecker. It is recognizable by its penetrating song.

Its cage is uncomfortably small and its craftsmanship is undeserving of Her Majesty's time. It seems to be low-energy. It must be groomed with a paintbrush often.

It plays a kind of sport with Simple Trail Plover, throwing earrings, which the monarchy of Jamibia uses in reading a will.

~*~

Chattering Thrasher of Opex

Joined the Aviary according to prophecy.

The Chattering Thrasher of Opex is a bird with silky blue feathers. The Chattering Thrasher of Opex has a calming song. It is kept in a brick cage.

Its nest is made from reeds. It must be groomed with a special fork often.

In Opex they often eat it, with a hint of mushroom.

~*~

Lesser Striking Egret

It's a swimming bird. It has a spectacular brown beak, which it preens at sunset. The Lesser Striking Egret has a grotesque song and I adore it. It is fed seeds as a treat at high tide. It is kept in a steel cage.

I don't know why but this fowl's offal, when reduced to powder, are used for cleaning.

People say it is the result of a cuttlefish and octopus falling in love, 100 years ago.

~*~

Goldostrich

It seems to be a bird with blue-and-pink feathers. I'm intrigued by this beast's notable neck. The bird sings with a long clack then a high sound once. It must be groomed with a comb in the afternoon. I like its cage, maybe because it was created in the shape of a staff.

I secretly believe Cem has been stealing Goldostrich bones to trade, so I should report it.

Related to this beast and its way of life, scriptures say:

'Impending disaster,
Prepare for a fight with your best friend,
Marriage and family are in the cards'

Couldn't be further from the truth..

~*~

Moss Tail Grebe

Bartered by a woodworker, for tax payment.

It appears to be a beast with a round body attired in vivid purple feathers. I'm curious about the gentle chirping of the Moss Tail Grebe. Its cage is uncomfortably small and its material is of low quality.

It eats a lot of roasted persimmon with a potato sauce. It's energetic.

Only scholars know that the eggshells of the Moss Tail Grebe can be turned to a gel and used as a ritual offering.

~*~

Sky Head Swan

Rescued from the the Kitchenmaze by Her Majesty's grace.

It is a handsome silvery egg, not yet hatched. Maybe the apple harvest will be profitable this year.

~*~

Alluring Dunes Falcon

I see a bird dressed in sleek feathers. Its glassy beige bill is distinctive. It is recognizable by its thunderous squawking. In the afternoon this species must be groomed with a comb. I adore its cage, maybe because its aura is shoddy work.

I read in 'The Perspective Guide' by Mehmed Murad that that the skulls of the Alluring Dunes Falcon can be boiled and used for cleaning.

When I am near it I think of totality.

~*~

Abyssal Pretty Martin

I see a lanky bird with purple-and-blue feathers. It seems to be dying. At moonset this species must be groomed with a paintbrush.

It suffers in a stone cage that is pitiably small. It predates Sbanad Mountain Shrike. This bird is known by its portentous song.

I see it is hale and hearty. It seems that it obsesses over its two eggs.

This bird is eaten on the hour, baked with a pepper.

~*~

Abyssal Ivory Medium

Captured in a nearby mountain.

The Abyssal Ivory Medium is a bird with frizzled brown feathers. The bird sings with a long sound then a simple chirp thrice. It suffers in a copper cage that is enormous.

A dreamer said it exchanges gifts of pine wood with Jamibian Teal. It's somewhat balding.

I think Cem has been stealing Abyssal Ivory Medium bones as a ritual offering, but I dare not say anything.

~*~

Greater Peachbird

It seems to be a graceful bird. It has a notable green beak, which it preens in early fall. The Greater Peachbird communicates with a gentle buzz. I must report it is losing tail feathers. I see four eggs in the cage's center. Maybe the fig harvest will be bountiful this year. It dwells in a straw cage that is the appropriate size.

It's a mystery to me but this bird's fat, when dried and ground, are used in battle magic.

gluttons in Northern Medda keep this bird when they are certified to attend the royal court

~*~

Ko Hole Swan

Origin: Ko

It looks to be a bird whose throat is pink. The twittering of the Ko Hole Swan seems either thunderous or dire depending on whether it is well fed. I see it is becoming more fluffy with time. It seems that it adores its two eggs.

I loathe its cage, maybe because it was created by a sinner. It hunts in the company of Ko Hole Swan.

Daily this species must be groomed with a special fork.

~*~

Northern Shearwater of Northern Medda

Traded from the Northern Medda Aviary.

It's a round fowl with green-and-pink feathers. I appreciate the delightful call of the Northern Shearwater of Northern Medda. I see it is somewhat balding. I see two eggs in the nest. Possibly the melons of the woods are poisoned.

Its cage is the appropriate size and it was constructed in the shape of a X. They say when it's foggy the bird eats away from me.

It is carefully washed with a camel hair cloth daily.

~*~

Rustshrike

Liberated from a Meddese thief. Value: 850 kurus.

I see a bird with spectacular grey feathers. The Rustshrike produces a delightful song. I don't like its cage, could be because its material is a work of art.

It adopts Jamibian Quetzal chicks as its own. I perceive it is healthy. It appears that it loathes its four eggs.

In harvest season, hedonists of Southern Medda eat this bird under orange leaves.

~*~

Blackeider

Origin: Jamibia Cave

I see a bird with a long-legged body sheathed in frizzled, pink-coloured feathers mottled with brown. I appreciate the joyful song of the Blackeider. It appears to be dying. At moonrise this species must be groomed with a special fork.

It sings in a marble cage that is the appropriate size. It hoards leaves, which are often stolen by Gentle Island Pelican.

It appears to be vivacious. When it snows this species must be groomed with a comb.

~*~

Eerie Deep Jungle Goose

Normally kept in the Under-Library.

It is only an egg for now, warm and strong yellow.

~*~

Tender Peak Raven

I see a bird whose tail is black. It seems to be somewhat balding. It must be groomed with a set of tongs in the new moon.

It is kept in a silver cage. My friend told me it appears that it admires peck near the south edge. This bird is known by its metallic chirping.

It seems to be low-energy. Often this species must be groomed with a comb.

I can't comprehend it but this bird's offal, when dried and ground, are used to trade.

~*~

Red Breast Martin

It's a small bird the size of a wine jug sheathed in downy feathers. It has a distinctive blue beak. It looks to be healthy. It is carefully washed with a feather cloth during an eclipse.

I do not like its cage, maybe because its appearance is of low quality. It steals roots from Northern Shrike of Sbanad. The Red Breast Martin has a reassuring call.

I must report it is hale and hearty. I see two eggs in the north-most corner. The Keepers must come interpret its meaning.

In harvest season, merchants of Opex eat this bird under ivy.

~*~

Simple Cave Quetzal

The Simple Cave Quetzal is a strange bird attired in turbulent, red-coloured feathers laced with green. I'm perplexed by this bird's prominent tail. I don't like its cage, maybe because its look is a work of art.

Simple Cave Quetzal prefers to build its nest out of straw, in an orchard. The Simple Cave Quetzal has a spectacular, ominous fluting which it makes at sunset. I observe it is becoming more irregular with time. It appears that it loves its two eggs.

I worry Cem has been stealing Simple Cave Quetzal offal as currency, but I have no proof.

~*~

Lesser Dusk Shaman

It's a bird with spectacular pink feathers. It has a prominent blue throat. The Lesser Dusk Shaman's fluting sounds like a short clack three times, then a complex trill. It seems to be dying. It must be groomed with a special fork at moonrise. Its cage is uncomfortably small and its aura is inspiring.

I once was given an amulet from Sbanad with a drawing of this bird on the side.

~*~

Ink Belly Vulture

I see a thirsty beast. It has distinctive orange underparts, which it preens in summer. I've heard the Ink Belly Vulture makes a jubilant call when it is spring. It must be groomed with scissors in high winds. Its cage is pitiably small and it was constructed by a bandit.

If reduced to powder, its skulls may be combined with raspberry for a delicious pie.

I decided to match its squawking in the early evening to the Meddese language the outcome said: Someone you know needs to howl at the moon more often ... Strange..

~*~

Abyssal Opal Dancer

I see a bird whose breast is orange. I wonder at this bird's conspicuous green tufted crest. I'm perplexed by the charming song of the Abyssal Opal Dancer. It's losing tail feathers. It sings in a limestone cage that is laughably large.

It is important to the The Magister's Ritual.

~*~

Blustering Ditch Jumper

Gifted to Her Majesty long before my time.

It's a melancholy bird. Its thin black beak is conspicuous, which it preens frequently. The chirping of the Blustering Ditch Jumper seems either sedate or bewitching depending on the phase of the moon. It suffers in an iron cage that is pitiably small.

Blustering Ditch Jumper made its nest in the shape of a paint, out of ferns. I see it is low-energy. A smooth egg rolls around in the nest.

This beast is eaten when it hails, baked with a pear.

~*~

Long Mountain Limpkin

It's a fungal bird. It has a long beak, which it waves about. It looks to be energetic. When the stars align this species must be groomed with a set of tongs.

It is kept in a bone cage. I've heard it snacks on a child-weight of meat. This bird is known by its dire buzz.

I report it is low-energy. An elongated egg lies forgotten near the middle of the cage.

This bird is eaten when it snows, boiled with a raspberry.

~*~

Flaxcardinal

Gifted by a charitable citizen.

I see a creature with turbulent yellow feathers. It hoards sticks, which are often stolen by Coastal Eider of Vuesse. This bird is known by its tender call.

It lives in a stone cage that is enormous. I observe it is ill. I see two eggs in the cage's center. Maybe Her Majesty will have a son.

An infamous watercolor in the People's Park of Opex features Flaxcardinal, called Don't Hold Back; Say What You Really Mean, by Aynisah Osman

~*~

Southern Oriole of Opex

Origin: Opex

It is a delicious-looking silvery egg, not yet hatched. This bodes well.

~*~

Gunpowder Throat Kite

According to 'Birds Encyclopedia' (or rather, the fragments remaining of it), origin: Aka Tilanasco

It's a long-legged fowl with notable blue feathers. It has a short beak. If you listen carefully it sounds like it sings: 'Someone is making a decision' It is kept in a pewter cage.

It exchanges gifts of pebbles with Goldbluebill. It's losing tail feathers.

If ground to dust, its skulls may be combined with persimmon for a horrible pie.

~*~

Brazen Hole Chickadee

The Brazen Hole Chickadee is a bird whose tail is yellow. It has prominent orange talons. This bird is known for a thin, high song. It looks to be sickly. It is fed combed peach with an apple sauce forcibly at moonrise. It is kept in a red marble cage.

Beaks of the Brazen Hole Chickadee are boiled by the Jamibian and used in the creation of cement.

I dreamed of it last night.

~*~

Jamibia Ditch Martin

Gifted to the Aviary by a prince in Southern Medda.

The Jamibia Ditch Martin is a beast with green-and-yellow feathers. They say it gorges on two pounds of seeds. The Jamibia Ditch Martin has a prominent, piercing call which it makes at midnight.

It is kept in a glass cage. I observe it is vivacious. I see four eggs next to the nest. Her Majesty will be ecstatic.

It makes me want to visit romantic Jamibia.

~*~

Rich Hole Raven

I see an elegant fowl with red-and-black feathers. It has a notable blue beak. Normally the Rich Hole Raven makes an elegant song but when it is in a group it makes a short buzz. It must be groomed with a paintbrush in the evening. It sings in a limestone cage that is smallish.

interpreters in Jamibia keep this bird as pets

~*~

Seapiper

It seems to be a long-necked bird whose back is orange. It hunts Thin Hole Swift. The Seapiper's call sounds like a rich chirp once, then a complex pipe.

It is kept in a clay cage. I must report it is ill. It appears to have laid an elongated egg! This bodes well.

They say it fears the dolphin.

~*~

Lesser Dusty Quail

Gifted to Her Majesty 1,200 years ago.

It appears to be a bird with frizzled pink feathers. The Lesser Dusty Quail communicates with a rich call. I quite like its cage, possibly because it contains a bird skull.

They say it admires the new clump of stone in its cage. It looks to be healthy. It must be groomed with a paintbrush in high winds.

In Sbanad they often eat it, garnished with grape (sauteed or boiled ).

~*~

Southern Ink Miner

Donated to the Aviary after last year's The Green Fest.

The Southern Ink Miner is a diminutive fowl covered with silky, dust-coloured feathers barred with red. On the hour the bird looks southward. I love the admirable song of the Southern Ink Miner.

It is kept in a brick cage. It must be groomed with a comb just before sunrise.

Only scholars know it is the result of a scorpion and spider falling in love, 290 years ago.

~*~

Yellowpigeon

Rescued from the the Rose Hall by Her Majesty's grace.

It's a lonely bird. I'm intrigued by this bird's conspicuous brown plume, which the ancients described in their poem. Yellowpigeon prefers to make its nest out of cactus needles, in sight of a cactus. This fowl is known for a low, reassuring song.

It suffers in a bronze cage that is large enough to fit two keg. It must be groomed with a set of tongs in winter.

It featured in the historic song by Nigar Osman, Whatever's On Your Mind, Go For It Because You Can't Lose Today, along with Abyssal Enigmatic Princess

~*~

Forbidden Violetbird

Origin: Jamibia

It's an intriguing bird dressed in silky feathers. Its sharp red beak is distinctive. Its nest is made from forks. This bird produces a complex song when Her Majesty wakes up.

It sleeps in a straw cage that is pitiably small. It looks to be low-energy. It is fed boiled apple by hand at the full moon.

It makes me want to visit inspiring Jamibia.

~*~

Snow Throat Fisher

The Snow Throat Fisher is a little bird, no bigger than a cap, whose throat is orange. I'm amazed by this fowl's noteworthy green tufted crest. Normally the Snow Throat Fisher makes a thin chirping but when it is courting it makes a bizarre buzz. It's ill. Its cage is enormous and it contains a lantern.

An acclaimed oil painting in the People's Palace of Vuesse features Snow Throat Fisher, stereotypically

~*~

Coastal Dripping Thrush

It's a bumbling bird. I wonder at this bird's spectacular tufted crest, which it waves about. I observe it is low-energy. It seems to have laid a delicious-looking egg! We will be swarmed by crickets.

It is kept in a bronze cage. It hoards seedlings, which are often stolen by Greenfalcon. The Coastal Dripping Thrush has a noteworthy, warming song which it makes in the afternoon.

It's ill.

If ground to dust, its down may be combined with peach for a very bad feast.

~*~

Harrowing Peak Scoter

It's a stout creature whose tail is black. It has a noteworthy yellow beak. I loathe its cage, maybe because it was constructed by a singer.

Often the bird sings north. The Harrowing Peak Scoter has a notable, haunting call which it makes in the afternoon. I perceive it is vivacious. It appears that it admires its two eggs.

Skulls of the Harrowing Peak Scoter are calcified by the Jamibian and used as a ritual offering.

~*~

Warbling Lemonbird

It seems to be a bird with a lanky body clad in fluffy feathers. It has spectacular green toes. It must be groomed with a set of tongs during an eclipse.

It is kept in a copper cage. It shares a nest with Vuesse Bay Wigeon. It is recognizable by its piercing warbling.

It is carefully washed with a camel hair cloth three times a moonphase.

This bird is eaten when the tangerines ripen, grilled with a grape.

~*~

Legendary Leather Survivor

According to 'Oranges Book', origin: Sbanad

The Legendary Leather Survivor is a small fowl, no bigger than a fist, with red-and-green feathers. It adopts Cinnabaryellowbill ostrichlets as its own. This creature is known for a rich, bold song.

It is kept in an oakwood cage. It seems to be becoming more coarse with time. At high noon this species must be groomed with scissors.

An influential watercolor in the Public Plaza of Sbanad features Legendary Leather Survivor, called Whatever's On Your Mind, Go For It Because You Can't Lose Today, by Gulbahar Murad

~*~

Piercing Goldbird

It looks to be a squat bird attired in uniform, ochre-coloured feathers spotted with grey. It has a hooked bill. It seems to be losing tail feathers. It is carefully washed with a mohair cloth at high noon.

It is kept in a straw cage. It mates in the company of Piercing Goldbird. The Piercing Goldbird has a bold call and I loathe it.

It seems to be ill. It is carefully washed with a silk cloth in high winds.

According to 'Reversals Guide' by Gulbahar Osman, that the guano of the Piercing Goldbird can be boiled and used in prophesying.

~*~

The Grownbird

Found in the Palace the Skygarden.

It seems to be a bird attired in dark black feathers. This bird produces a penetrating warbling when Her Majesty wakes up. It is kept in a sandstone cage.

It enjoys singing duets with Greenparrot. It's ill.

They say that the feathers of the The Grownbird can be dried and ground and used for cleaning crates.

~*~

Meddese Falcon

I see a dusty bird. I'm perplexed by its prominent tail, which the seers described in their poem. I like its cage, maybe because it was constructed in the shape of a sword.

Only scholars know it hoards small mushrooms, which are often stolen by Tilanascion Warbler. I read in 'Kite Book' that the Meddese Falcon produces a sound like a human voice. It is carefully washed with a velvet cloth daily.

A stonemason said that the down of the Meddese Falcon can be dried and ground and used as a ritual offering.

~*~

Koese Swan

The Koese Swan is a tall bird whose throat is yellow. The Koese Swan has an inspiring warbling. It must be groomed with a horsehair brush on the hour. I don't like its cage, maybe because it was sculpted in the shape of a prism.

In Ko they often eat it, followed by a bucket of peach-ink.

It served as inspiration for the historic saga by Aq Korkud, You've Lived Through This Before, along with Southern Princess of Jamibia

~*~

Ko Peak Thrush

Gifted by the generosity of Selim Hatun.

I see a round creature arrayed in uniform feathers. It steals bugs from Goldostrich. The warbling of the Ko Peak Thrush seems either admirable or bewitching depending on the stage of its life.

It is kept in a brick cage. It looks to be energetic. It is carefully washed with a cotton cloth occasionally.

I once purchased a ribbon from Ko with a drawing of this fowl on the side.

~*~

Piercing Brown Welder

I see an imposing bird. I'm fascinated by this bird's conspicuous tail, which it preens in high winds. It loves the new clump of glass in its cage. The twittering of the Piercing Brown Welder seems either baleful or pacifying depending on its mood.

It suffers in an oakwood cage that is smallish. It's vivacious.

They say Her Majesty built the Piercing Brown Welder as part of an effort.

~*~

Koese Blackbill

The Koese Blackbill is a bird whose throat is blue. Normally the Koese Blackbill makes a melodious call but when it is upset it makes a simple chirping. I see it is vivacious. It seems to have laid a perfect egg! This bodes ill. I adore its cage, maybe because it was made by a dreamer.

Its wingtips are worth its weight in kurus, especially in Ko.

~*~

Yellowsparrow

I see a large bird, bigger than a horse, attired in fluffy, ink-coloured feathers speckled with pink. I'm fascinated by this bird's conspicuous tail. It is recognizable by its melodious song. It seems to be currently molting. It must be groomed with a set of tongs on the hour. I adore its cage, perhaps because it is dripping.

This bird is eaten when it sees the water, grilled with a potato.

I dreamed of it last night.

~*~

Thunderous Pass Kite

Captured in a nearby ditch.

It's a lanky bird with irregular red feathers. The bird sings with a rich trill then a long pipe twice. It dwells in a pewter cage that is far too large.

Thunderous Pass Kite made its nest in the shape of a brick, out of sticks. It is fed snails against its will daily.

If boiled, its bones may be combined with grape for a regional pie.

~*~

Tea Head Shrike

It's a fowl with uniform purple feathers. Its wide pink beak is spectacular. The bird sings with a long tweet then a thin clack three times. I must report it is energetic. I see two eggs in the cage's center. Possibly peace will come. I loathe its cage, perhaps because its craftsmanship is of high quality.

I suspect Cem has been stealing Tea Head Shrike guano as a seasoning, but I dare not say anything.

The people of Vuesse associate it with persuasion.

~*~

Bold Creekbed Quail

According to 'The Oranges Guide' (Chapter Seven), origin: Southern Medda

I see a long-legged creature sheathed in frizzled feathers. I'm intrigued by this bird's notable throat. The Bold Creekbed Quail's warbling sounds like a complex chirp thrice, then a short sound. It must be groomed with a paintbrush sometimes.

It is kept in a bone cage. My mother told me it hunts Legendary Owl of Jamibia in autumn.

It is fed a platter of pear and apple as a treat daily.

~*~

Lesser Blue Deckswabber

It seems to be a gangly bird with brown-and-green feathers. It has a prominent red bill. I observe it is hale and hearty. It seems to have laid a thumbnail-sized egg! This bodes well.

I like its cage, maybe because it was woven by a diver. It seems that it admires squawk in the cage's center. The Lesser Blue Deckswabber has a spectacular, tender squawking which it makes late at night.

I report it is currently molting. It seems that it obsesses over its two eggs.

I secretly believe Cem has been stealing Lesser Blue Deckswabber offal in christening a ship, but I lack evidence.

~*~

Eastern Burrowing Eagle

It's a diminutive bird, no bigger than a belt buckle, with downy black feathers. I appreciate its conspicuous tail. It lives in a gold cage that is the appropriate size.

The snake devours it in high winds. This bird is known by its high warbling. It's losing tail feathers.

I don't know why but this fowl's talons, when made into a tincture, are used to trade.

~*~

Meddese Thrasher

It's a moist creature. It has a sturdy beak, which it waves about. This bird is known by its low call. I must report it is sickly. I see two eggs in the nest. Maybe storms approach. Its cage is far too large and it was created in the shape of a tree.

Droppings of the Meddese Thrasher are boiled by the Meddese and used as currency.

People say Her Majesty engineered the Meddese Thrasher as part of a campaign.

~*~

Holy Pretty Hen

Traded from the Jamibia Aviary.

The Holy Pretty Hen is a bird clad in dark black feathers. The Holy Pretty Hen has a conspicuous, uplifting twittering which it makes in the early evening. It lives in a silver cage that is smallish.

It enjoys singing duets with Harrowing Trail Vireo. I perceive it is healthy. It looks that it loathes its two eggs.

I don't understand it but this fowl's offal, when ground to dust, are used in love magic.

~*~

Greater Rotting Piper

Rescued from Carpenter Faire by Her Majesty's compassion.

It seems to be a lanky bird covered with prickly, umber-coloured feathers barred with blue. Its hooked orange bill is conspicuous. Normally the Greater Rotting Piper makes a jubilant call but when it is hunting it makes a soothing chirping. I report it is energetic. A small egg twitches in the east-most corner.

I admire its cage, could be because it was woven in the shape of a fist. It enjoys singing duets with Bizarre Field Catcher.

I observe it is sickly. It appears to have laid a little egg! Her Majesty will be ecstatic.

~*~

Lesser Dignified Quail

The Lesser Dignified Quail is a fowl with a plump body with spectacular purple feathers. The Lesser Dignified Quail makes a cheerful sound which is quite simple. I must report it is losing tail feathers. It seems that it does not like its two eggs. It sleeps in a stone cage that is uncomfortably small.

Guano of the Lesser Dignified Quail are turned to a gel by the Tilanascion and used for cleaning crates.

Her Majesty hates this thirsty bird... I fear..

~*~

Piercing Dusty Shearwater

The Piercing Dusty Shearwater is a plump bird with red-and-green feathers. Few know its nest is made from thread. This bird is known for a complex, warming song.

I don't like its cage, possibly because it is very clean. It's losing tail feathers.

It makes me want to visit diplomatic Sbanad.

~*~

Northern Hawk of Aka Tilanasco

The Northern Hawk of Aka Tilanasco is a bird attired in prickly feathers. I adore its notable tail. It looks to be sickly. In the middle of winter this species must be groomed with a paintbrush.

It is kept in a limestone cage. A bandit said its nest is made from giraffe bones. The fowl sings with a complex chirp then a simple tweet twice.

I report it is vivacious. An unblemished egg has been put in the nest.

I can't comprehend it but this bird's droppings, when made into a tincture, are used as currency.

~*~

Meddese Ostrich

Normally kept in the Pit.

It's a great beast, as big as a person, covered with silky feathers. It has noteworthy black eyes. I read in 'The Fantastic Oak wood Articles' that Meddese Ostrich made its nest in the shape of a tong, out of cactus needles. This fowl produces a bizarre warbling during The A pepper cake Anniversary.

Its cage is far too large and it was woven by a gossip. It appears to be ill. It is fed cicadas by hand occasionally.

It plays a kind of sport with Vuesse Bay Wigeon, throwing beetle shells, which the monarchy of Southern Medda uses in prophesying.

~*~

Holy Elegant Owl

It seems to be a bird clad in silky feathers. I'm curious about this bird's notable plume. It's dispirited.

Its cage is far too large and it contains a goblet. It shares a nest with Lesser Skybird. The Holy Elegant Owl has a brash call.

It seems to be somewhat balding. It is carefully washed with a linen cloth daily.

In Jamibia they often eat it, on a bed of mushroom.

~*~

Koese Cuckoo

Gifted by the generosity of Dr. Uzun.

It's a creature dressed in downy feathers. I've heard at the full moon the bird looks east. The Koese Cuckoo produces a long song.

It suffers in a marble cage that is laughably large. It is fed a grape garnished with rice (roasted or boiled) as a treat when the stars align.

This species is recognized as full citizens of Ko.

~*~

Pacifying Creekbed Turkey

The Pacifying Creekbed Turkey is a bird whose tail is green. It's healthy.

Its cage is uncomfortably small and it is speckled with guano. It preens in the company of Pacifying Creekbed Turkey. This bird is known by its blaring song.

It appears to be vivacious. It is fed roasted grape with a parsnip sauce against its will in sandstorms.

This bird is eaten late at night, baked with a nut.

~*~

Coastal Greybird

Traded for 200 incense burners.

The Coastal Greybird is a bumbling bird. It has spectacular green wingtips, which I did not expect. It is recognizable by its low buzz. It's dying.

I loathe its cage, possibly because it was woven by a fisher. It hoards apples, which are often stolen by Ashbrant.

It is carefully washed with a camel hair cloth sometimes.

~*~

Lesser Creeping Thrasher

Rescued from Persuasion Ritual by Her Majesty's compassion.

The Lesser Creeping Thrasher is a bird clothed in downy, pink-coloured feathers speckled with brown. I appreciate its spectacular plume. This bird is known by its dreadful call. I observe it is losing tail feathers. A tiny egg rolls around near the down edge.

Its cage is uncomfortably small and it is overgrown with ferns. It adopts Bold Creekbed Quail babys as its own.

It's energetic.

~*~

Southern Striking Cormorant

It's a little bird the size of a fig with spectacular purple feathers. I'm fascinated by this fowl's conspicuous head. I observe it is losing tail feathers. A cold egg has been put near the heaven edge.

Its cage is enormous and its aura is acceptable. It adopts Grotesque Hole Raven chicks as its own. This fowl is known for a rich, piercing song.

It's currently molting.

If turned to a gel, its skulls may be combined with parsnip for a tasty feast.

~*~

Meddese Condor

Gifted to Her Majesty by an admirer in Jamibia.

It's a lonely bird. I'm amazed by its spectacular crest, which the prophets described in their poem. The song of the Meddese Condor seems either mysterious or reassuring depending on the phase of the moon. Its cage is of medium size and it was built by a bandit.

The snake preys on it in high winds. It appears to be currently molting. Thrice a year this species must be groomed with a comb.

It's a mystery to me but this bird's offal, when calcified, are used as a ritual offering.

~*~

Northern Red Ranger

It's a long-legged fowl with notable orange feathers. It has a spectacular red throat. It sings in a bronze cage that is the appropriate size.

I've heard the hyena hunts it in sandstorms. This beast is known for a simple, alluring song. It's sickly.

If reduced to powder, its bones may be combined with grape for a horrible platter.

~*~

Pa'nenish Goose

I see a lanky beast with silky green feathers. It is kept in a marble cage.

I read in 'Great Grapes Reports' that the terrier hunts it in the morning. The Pa'nenish Goose's buzz sounds like a complex sound once, then a low chirp. It is carefully washed with a mohair cloth rarely.

I believe Cem has been stealing Pa'nenish Goose offal in granting a title to nobility, but I dare not say anything.

~*~

Brash Island Tern

It's a little bird, about the size of a tea cup, whose belly is yellow. It is recognizable by its warming warbling. It looks to be dispirited. It must be groomed with a brush on the hour. It is kept in a sandstone cage.

It is used in marriage disputes.

~*~

Greater Hummingbird of Opex

Donated to Her Majesty anonymously.

It is only an egg for now, asymmetrical and primarily ghostly.

~*~

Hunting Sandbird

Gifted to Her Majesty by an admirer in Northen Medda.

I see a lanky bird with green-and-brown feathers. The Hunting Sandbird has an alluring call. I perceive it is losing tail feathers. It seems that it doesn't like its two eggs.

Its cage is the appropriate size and it is filthy. They say it eats Northern Medda Meadow Chicken without mercy.

It must be groomed with a brush in sandstorms.

~*~

Warbling Grouse of Opex

Origin: Opex

It is a perfect vanilla with flecks of deep blue egg, not yet hatched. Perhaps it will snow tomorrow.

~*~

Lesser Quit of Northern Medda

Liberated from a Meddese criminal. Value: 400 kurus.

I see a gangly bird whose belly is red. This bird produces a charming chirping when a hero dies. I loathe its cage, perhaps because it is sparkling clean.

A flower-seller said it exchanges gifts of sticks with Jamibia Peak Terrier-eater. It is fed insects against its will daily.

If boiled, its eggshells may be combined with raspberry for a traditional pie.

~*~

Green Head Falcon

I see a fowl with a plump body whose neck is green. I love this bird's distinctive tail. The Green Head Falcon's song sounds like a complex trill twice, then a high sound. It seems to be somewhat balding. It is fed marrow against its will occasionally. Its cage is the appropriate size and its material is acceptable.

If you can trust my good friend, it is the result of an antelope and jackal falling in love, 1,000 years ago.

~*~

Abyssal Platinum Dreamer

It looks to be a fungal bird clad in uniform, iron-coloured feathers striped with orange. It sings in a gold cage that is the appropriate size.

It steals roots from Aka Tilanasco Pass Falcon. This fowl is known for a rich, haunting song. It's somewhat balding.

I don't understand it but this bird's feathers, when calcified, are used in conjuration.

~*~

Vuesse Mountain Egret

The Vuesse Mountain Egret is a dripping creature. Its small green bill is notable, which it preens at low tide. This bird is known for a rich, high song. It's losing tail feathers. Its cage is of medium size and it contains an arrow.

It makes me want to visit forceful Vuesse.

~*~

Opexi Duck

It's a gangly creature clothed in prickly, iron-coloured feathers laced with pink. It has a spectacular red bill. The Opexi Duck's call sounds like a simple chirp three times, then a thin tweet. I observe it is sickly. It seems to have laid a cold egg! It will lightning storm tomorrow. It is kept in a glass cage.

It plays a kind of sport with Jamibian Quetzal, kicking seashells, which the monarchy of Opex uses in weddings.

~*~

Meddese Grebe

Sold by a Meddese bird-handler for 600 kurus. Fair.

It's an imposing bird. I'm amazed by its notable tufted crest, which it waves about. It eats in the company of Meddese Grebe. The Meddese Grebe produces a dreadful twittering.

It suffers in a ceramic cage that is far too large. I see it is somewhat balding. It appears to have laid a delicious-looking egg! Storms approach.

This lucky fowl has been allowed to perch on Her Majesty's shoulder..

~*~

Ultramarine Tail Owl

Confiscated from the the Skygarden.

I see a gangly beast sheathed in silky feathers. It has noteworthy beige underparts. The Ultramarine Tail Owl has a sharp call. It is fed sauteed mushroom forcibly at the full moon.

I loathe its cage, possibly because its material is undeserving of Her Majesty's time. It hoards seashells, which are often stolen by Inkostrich.

It is fed a parsnip pie by hand in the new moon.

~*~

Piercing Sagebird

According to 'The Meat Book', origin: Southern Medda

It looks to be a long-necked fowl arrayed in sleek feathers. It has a noteworthy blue bill. The bird sings with a low sound then a rich clack twice. Its cage is uncomfortably small and its look is of high quality.

It steals earrings from Greater Ochre Gossip. It is fed moths on a platter rarely.

In harvest season, hunters of Southern Medda eat this bird under red leaveS.

~*~

Simple Trail Petrel

It appears to be a dusty beast. I wonder at this bird's distinctive purple tufted crest, which it preens in sandstorms. Everyone knows the grand bird's buzz is penetrating. I see it is hale and hearty. I see two eggs in the corner. Possibly Her Majesty will have a kid. It is kept in a brick cage.

A famous oil painting in the Public Square of Southern Medda features Simple Trail Petrel, though it inaccurately displays the bird with a beige head

~*~

Abyssal Mysterious Starling

It appears to be a creature arrayed in vivid brown feathers. I love this bird's prominent tail. It adopts Legendary Grown Welder babys as its own. I've heard the intriguing bird's call is strident.

I love its cage, maybe because it is a bit empty. It is carefully washed with a camel hair cloth at moonrise.

A celebrated freize in the Patriotic Mosque of Ko features Abyssal Mysterious Starling, interestingly

~*~

Soothing Dune Grouse

It looks to be a gangly bird with turbulent yellow feathers. I'm fascinated by this creature's conspicuous neck. It looks to be dispirited. It is fed seeds by hand often.

Its cage is smallish and its aura is of low quality. If you can trust my spy, it swallows a lot of acorns. The Soothing Dune Grouse has an ominous squawking.

I perceive it is energetic. It appears to have laid a warm egg! Perhaps Her Majesty will have a baby.

In Aka Tilanasco they often eat it, followed by a bucket of mushroom-milk.

~*~

Green Head Shearwater

Gifted to Her Majesty by an admirer in Ko.

It looks to be a striking bird. I'm fascinated by this bird's distinctive yellow tufted crest, which the poets described in their saga. If you listen carefully it sounds like it sings: 'You need to get the facts' It seems to be energetic. It is fed boiled potato with a grape sauce by hand at high tide.

Its cage is enormous and it is quite dirty. It enjoys singing duets with Abyssal Platinum Dreamer.

It appears to be hale and hearty. During The Winter Honoring this species must be groomed with a comb.

~*~

Abyssal Shearwater of Jamibia

I see a pretty beast with conspicuous pink feathers. Its short black beak is distinctive. It seems to be dying. At the full moon this species must be groomed with a brush.

It is kept in a ceramic cage. When Harooni is at its peak the bird nests east. The Abyssal Shearwater of Jamibia has a noteworthy, tender call which it makes late at night.

I see it is hale and hearty. It looks to have laid a tiny egg! Her Majesty will be overjoyed.

This bird is eaten in the new moon, grilled with a peach.

~*~

Pa'nen Islet Heron

The Pa'nen Islet Heron is a bird clothed in sleek, leather-coloured feathers barred with green. The Pa'nen Islet Heron has an ominous song and I adore it. It's energetic. Its cage is laughably large and its appearance is of remarkably high quality.

Fortune-tellers drop feathers from edge of lighthouse and read the pattern at high tide.

~*~

WINTER

I shall try to find joy in my heart to greet candle-lit winter. Already the year (and my task!) is half-complete, though I fear this final half shall be more difficult than ever, due to Cem and his continual interference.

In the interests of reconciliation, he left a single windflower at my work-station, yet I find it difficult to forgive such a man. Thankfully, I may focus instead on the birds.

~*~

Quartzloon

It appears to be a strange bird. It has spectacular beige underparts, which the ancients described in their poem. The Quartzloon communicates with a dreadful call. I see it is healthy. It appears that it loves its two eggs. It is kept in a black marble cage.

I don't understand it but this bird's offal, when turned to a gel, are used for the treatment of melancholy.

I thought it spoke to me, saying: 'change'.

~*~

Rustchickadee

It seems to be a lumbering bird, bigger than a child, attired in dark purple feathers. It has a curved bill. It preys on Koese Swan for food. The call of the Rustchickadee resembles howling winds and I can't comprehend it.

Its cage is smallish and its appearance is disappointing. I must report it is healthy. It looks that it adores its two eggs.

Related to this creature and its preferences, scriptures say:

'Someone you know needs to howl at the moon more often,
Sexual opportunities abound,
Someone knows more than he or she will reveal'

Remarkably accurate..

~*~

Chattering Slippery Catcher

According to 'Tales of Completion' by Dr. Suleyman, origin: Northern Medda

It seems to be a slippery bird. I wonder at this creature's noteworthy crest, which I have been looking forward to. This bird produces a thin call when a princess dies. It is kept in a pewter cage.

According to 'Rare Fowls', it does not like the new fallen leaf in its cage. It seems to be ill. Occasionally this species must be groomed with a comb.

If dried and ground, its down may be combined with barley for a regional jerky.

~*~

Gentle Woods Partridge

I see a petite bird the size of a belt buckle with red-and-beige feathers. The Gentle Woods Partridge's song sounds like a rich clack twice, then a short sound. I see it is dying. It seems to have laid an elongated egg! This bodes ill. I loathe its cage, could be because it contains a spoon.

In Northern Medda they often eat it, with a hint of cranberry.

Her Majesty is said to love its crest as trim on her throne..

~*~

Tilanascion Tern

According to 'The ancient Change', origin: Aka Tilanasco

It's a bird attired in glossy feathers. The Tilanascion Tern produces a long call. It is kept in a blue marble cage.

It seems that it loathes squawk near the food. It seems to be currently molting. It must be groomed with a horsehair brush at midnight.

Bones of the Tilanascion Tern are ground to dust by the Tilanascion and used in lion ownership disputes.

~*~

Lesser Penguin of Pa'nen

The Lesser Penguin of Pa'nen is a squat beast with turbulent orange feathers. They say it looks that it loathes squawk in sight of the water. Everyone knows the Lesser Penguin of Pa'nen makes a delightful call when it feels threatened.

Its cage is large enough to fit two barrel and it was sculpted in the shape of a water. It appears to be currently molting. It is carefully washed with a camel hair cloth at sunrise.

In 'The Book of Activity', it fears the dolphin.

~*~

Northern Teal of Northern Medda

It seems to be a melancholy bird. Its curved red beak is prominent, which I did not expect. It lives in a granite cage that is large enough to fit two camel.

They say Northern Teal of Northern Medda made its nest in the shape of a scale, out of reeds. The Northern Teal of Northern Medda's warbling sounds like a short trill once, then a rich sound. It seems to be sickly. It must be groomed with a set of tongs daily.

Feathers of the Northern Teal of Northern Medda are dried and ground by the Meddese and used as a ritual offering.

~*~

Singing Creeping Grackle

It's a bird clothed in glossy, red-coloured feathers speckled with blue. It is kept in an iron cage.

Its nest is triangle-shaped and has been found near damp corners. The fluting of the Singing Creeping Grackle seems either mysterious or tender depending on the nature of its diet. It seems to be somewhat balding. When the harvest begins this species must be groomed with a special fork.

Talons of the Singing Creeping Grackle are turned to a gel by the Meddese and used as makeup.

~*~

Western Kite of Southern Medda

Captured in fields near the Palace.

The Western Kite of Southern Medda is a burrowing fowl. It has a strong beak, which it preens on the hour. They say its nest is sun-shaped and has been found in the grass. The Western Kite of Southern Medda makes a tender sound which is quite melodious.

It sleeps in a ceramic cage that is enormous. I must report it is vivacious. It appears that it loves its two eggs.

It is central to the The Faire of the Prince.

~*~

Fearful Ditch Finch

Confiscated from the the Rose Hall.

It appears to be a secretive bird. It has a prominent yellow breast, which it preens at moonrise. The call of the Fearful Ditch Finch seems either soft or eerie depending on its age. Its cage is of medium size and its craftsmanship is of low quality.

The cricket eats it at the full moon. I see it is energetic. A petite egg lies forgotten up against the cage edge.

I don't know why but this fowl's fat, when made into a tincture, are used in the creation of paint.

~*~

Goldshrike

Purchased in Jamibia for 40 kurus. Average.

The Goldshrike is a giant beast, as big as a horse, with yellow-and-black feathers. It has a conspicuous red bill. The Goldshrike has a delicate call. I must report it is vivacious. I see two eggs near the food. This bodes well.

Its cage is pitiably small and it was constructed by a ranger. It hoards beetle shells, which are often stolen by Harrowing Trail Vireo.

It's currently molting.

~*~

Silvergrouse

According to 'Uncommon Oranges Tales', origin: Ko

I see a bird with a lanky body whose throat is brown. It has a sturdy beak. It hoards eggs, which are often stolen by Warbling Grouse of Opex. The Silvergrouse has a prominent, harrowing warbling which it makes at midnight.

It suffers in a stone cage that is smallish. It appears to be becoming more wild with time. It must be groomed with a special fork rarely.

I decided to drop feathers from edge of shrine and read the pattern the outcome said: Getting your heart's desire ... A distorted reflection of reality..

~*~

Opexi Hummingbird

It's a slippery bird. It has a distinctive purple beak, which the poets described in their poem. It seems to be low-energy. It must be groomed with a set of tongs during an eclipse.

I loathe its cage, maybe because it is sparkling clean. It lives on a ton of a jerky of turnip and onion. The Opexi Hummingbird has a warming warbling.

It's dying.

If calcified, its guano may be combined with oxtail for a tasty stew.

~*~

Rubyoriole

Found in the Palace the Rose Hall.

It's a moist bird. I'm intrigued by its conspicuous plume, which it waves about. Often the bird peers westward. The Rubyoriole has a distinctive, sharp call which it makes at sunrise.

It sings in a silver cage that is large enough to fit two large dog. It is carefully washed with a feather cloth on the hour.

It's crucial to battle magic.

~*~

Southern Blood Welder

According to 'The Ancient Cherries', origin: Sbanad

The Southern Blood Welder is a thirsty creature. It has distinctive yellow feet, which the prophets described in their story. I've heard its nest is horse-shaped and has been found under a cactus. The Southern Blood Welder has a noteworthy, strange warbling which it makes in the evening.

It dwells in a brick cage that is pitiably small. It is carefully washed with a feather cloth daily.

Everyone knows it is the result of a spider and kitfox falling in love, 200 years ago.

~*~

Coastal Bluebird

It appears to be a creature with a plump body with green-and-purple feathers. It's becoming more complex with time.

It suffers in a limestone cage that is uncomfortably small. A navigator told me it enjoys singing duets with Southern Oriole of Opex. A fisher said the dripping bird's fluting is fearful.

It seems to be hale and hearty. It is fed charred barley with an orange sauce as a treat in the evening.

Fat of the Coastal Bluebird are reduced to powder by the Vuessi and used in the creation of oil.

~*~

The Slatebird

Origin: Pa'nen

A perfect egg has been put in the nest.

~*~

Delicate Dune Ostrich

The Delicate Dune Ostrich is a thirsty fowl. I'm interested in this beast's prominent back, which it preens on the hour. Its cage is uncomfortably small and it contains a book.

It shares a nest with Holy Fungal Pigeon. The Delicate Dune Ostrich has a haunting song. I see it is ill. I see two eggs on a fallen leaf. Possibly we will be swarmed by cicadas.

Guano of the Delicate Dune Ostrich are ground to dust by the Meddese and used for cleaning spoons.

~*~

Holy Loon of Jamibia

Appeared miraculously after Her Majesty had a dream of ending.

Two eggs, nestled in a nest of ladles.

~*~

Pacifying Bay Grebe

It's a stout fowl with green-and-yellow feathers. I wonder at this bird's spectacular orange crest. It's ill.

Its cage is laughably large and it was constructed by a navigator. Everyone knows it preys on Flaxcardinal. Normally the Pacifying Bay Grebe makes a tender call but when it is calling its young it makes a sedate squawking.

It appears to be sickly. It is carefully washed with a cotton cloth in the afternoon.

I believe Cem has been stealing Pacifying Bay Grebe fat for cleaning crates, but I dare not say anything.

~*~

Oyster Neck Puffin

Captured in fields near the Palace.

The Oyster Neck Puffin is a fowl arrayed in pastel yellow feathers. I love this creature's noteworthy throat. The Oyster Neck Puffin has a bizarre song and I loathe it. It is kept in a reeds cage.

It eats Lesser Skybird. I must report it is currently molting. It seems that it loathes its two eggs.

In the dark season, organ pipe-players of Vuesse eat this bird under mistletoe.

~*~

Ominous Ditch Prince

Value: approx. 260 kurus.

Four eggs, nestled in a nest of braziers.

~*~

Thin Dunes Ostrich

It appears to be a long-legged bird whose back is purple. I appreciate the pacifying chirping of the Thin Dunes Ostrich. It is carefully washed with a mohair cloth during The Gala of the Spring. It is kept in a silver cage.

You can see your future love if you drop feathers from edge of cobbler and read the pattern.

~*~

Grotesque Peak Crake

Purchased in Ko for 380 kurus. Fair.

The Grotesque Peak Crake is a bird as big as a person whose tail is red. The Grotesque Peak Crake makes a sedate sound which is quite short. It appears to be healthy. It is fed smoked almond with a hot-gourd sauce against its will just before sunrise.

Its cage is large enough to fit two barrel and it was sculpted by a seer. Grotesque Peak Crake made its nest in the shape of a jug, out of crystals.

It must be groomed with scissors on the hour.

~*~

Greater Stork of Pa'nen

Sold by a Pa'nenish ornithologist for 50 kurus.

I see a bird with a lanky body whose breast is red. The bird sings with a simple pipe then a high trill twice. Its cage is far too large and it was crafted by a diver.

Greater Stork of Pa'nen made its nest in the shape of a paint, out of driftwood. I must report it is ill. A blotchy egg twitches in the nest.

A gossip told me that the down of the Greater Stork of Pa'nen can be turned to a gel and used for cleaning.

~*~

Piercing Mustard Dealer

I see a gangly bird with green-and-purple feathers. It lives in a ceramic cage that is of medium size.

It migrates in the company of Piercing Mustard Dealer. This bird is known by its gentle chirping. It's somewhat balding.

This creature is eaten rarely, fermented with a buckwheat.

~*~

Applethrasher

Origin: Opex

I see a bird sheathed in velvety, iron-coloured feathers penciled with green. The song of the Applethrasher seems either thin or beautiful depending on its mood. It is carefully washed with a cotton cloth often.

It is kept in a steel cage. It exchanges gifts of eggs with Quartzloon.

I see it is currently molting. It seems to have laid a warm egg! Her Majesty will have a kid.

~*~

Tilanascion Eagle

It's a beast whose belly is black. It has notable red legs. I adore its cage, maybe because it was sculpted in the shape of an oval.

I read its nest is sword-shaped and has been found under mountains. This creature is known for a complex, penetrating song. I observe it is losing tail feathers. It seems that it doesn't like its two eggs.

In Aka Tilanasco they often eat it, dressed in charred buckwheat.

~*~

Redquetzal

Traded for 300 ribbons. Market rate.

It's a beast with glossy yellow feathers. It has a spectacular black tail. Redquetzal made its nest in the shape of a blade, out of incense burners. The Redquetzal produces a pacifying call.

It is kept in a silver cage. I see it is vivacious. It appears to have laid an unremarkable egg! This bodes well.

My good friend told me fortune-tellers put a book and sculpture in front of it and see which it picks when the stars align

~*~

Hunting Gunpowderbird

According to 'The Guide of Roots' by Uzun Kasim, origin: Sbanad

It's a stout bird sheathed in spiky, gunpowder-coloured feathers peppered with blue. Its needle-like brown beak is noteworthy. I've heard the grand bird's call is calming. I quite like its cage, could be because it was built in the shape of a mountain.

It hunts Pacifying Mountain Heron. It appears to be losing tail feathers. It must be groomed with a comb on the hour.

Down of the Hunting Gunpowderbird are turned to a gel by the Sbanadan and used for the treatment of colds.

~*~

Vuesse Island Dipper

Exchanged by a sailor, for tax payment. Average.

It's a striking creature. It has a knife-like bill, which I looked forward to. I'm perplexed by the blaring song of the Vuesse Island Dipper. I adore its cage, maybe because it is very clean.

It bathes in the company of Vuesse Island Dipper. It is carefully washed with a linen cloth when it senses the sea.

I don't understand it but this bird's fat, when turned to a gel, are used to trade.

~*~

Uncanny Wash Hawk

Origin debated.

It seems to be a burrowing bird. I love its conspicuous plume, which it waves about. I read in 'Common as the tortoise Birds Scrolls' that the grand beast's song is brazen. It sleeps in a red marble cage that is uncomfortably small.

Its nest is staff-shaped and has been found by dunes. It's energetic.

Fat of the Uncanny Wash Hawk are reduced to powder by the Meddese and used as a ritual offering.

~*~

Greater Condor of Aka Tilanasco

It appears to be a tall bird whose tail is black. It sleeps in a silver cage that is far too large.

It adopts Piercing Creekbed Vulture kitelings as its own. The Greater Condor of Aka Tilanasco has a bold warbling and I quite like it. I perceive it is low-energy. I see many eggs in the corner. Maybe Her Majesty will have a kid.

Skulls of the Greater Condor of Aka Tilanasco are calcified by the Tilanascion and used as makeup.

~*~

Thin Trail Petrel

It's a dusty bird with pink-and-grey feathers. It must be groomed with a paintbrush frequently.

Its cage is laughably large and it contains a fork. It hunts Silvergrouse for food. The Thin Trail Petrel has a simple warbling and I admire it.

I must report it is becoming more velvety with time. It seems that it admires its two eggs.

Only scholars know that the rib bones of the Thin Trail Petrel can be made into a tincture and used in executions.

~*~

Orangeshrike

It appears to be a dusty bird. It has a notable green beak, which I expected. It steals eggs from Hungry Pigeon of Sbanad. The Orangeshrike communicates with a melodious song.

It is kept in a silver cage. It seems to be energetic. It must be groomed with a special fork daily.

I dreamed of it last night.

~*~

Redbunting

It's a round bird whose belly is grey. Its sturdy pink bill is notable. The warbling of the Redbunting seems either haunting or alluring depending on the nature of its diet. It looks to be currently molting. It must be groomed with a paintbrush in sandstorms. Its cage is smallish and it is covered in dust.

If boiled, its beaks may be combined with bread for a horrifying stew.

According to 'Scrolls of Creatures', it loves the scorpion.

~*~

Southern Sparrow of Southern Medda

The Southern Sparrow of Southern Medda is an imposing bird. It has a small beak, which it preens thrice a season. According to 'The dry Seedlings', Southern Sparrow of Southern Medda made its nest in the shape of a pipe, out of spider bones. The Southern Sparrow of Southern Medda produces a lovely song.

Its cage is far too large and its material is of high quality. It seems to be sickly. It is fed bugs on a platter at high noon.

When I am near it I think of action.

~*~

Vuesse Ditch Pelican

The Vuesse Ditch Pelican is a gangly bird clothed in fluffy, black-coloured feathers laced with purple. It has a narrow bill. I loathe its cage, perhaps because it is dripping.

They say Vuesse Ditch Pelican made its nest in the shape of a fork, out of seaweed. This creature produces an ominous squawking when Her Majesty goes to sleep. I must report it is dispirited. An average-sized egg rolls around in the nest.

It's a mystery to me but this bird's guano, when calcified, are used for the treatment of digestive problems.

~*~

Fern Head Grackle

It seems to be a beast with a plump body with prominent green feathers. They say it adopts Bewitching Cave Raven babys as its own. Normally the Fern Head Grackle makes a rich song but when it is pleased it makes a reassuring call.

It sleeps in a straw cage that is large enough to fit two camel. Occasionally this species must be groomed with a special fork.

I read it is the result of a reindeer and wolf falling in love, 190 years ago.

~*~

Warbling Cedar Butcher

The Warbling Cedar Butcher is a dainty bird arrayed in smooth feathers. I wonder at its conspicuous tufted crest. They say the Warbling Cedar Butcher makes a joyful song when it is calling a mate. It appears to be healthy. It must be groomed with scissors when the harvest begins. Its cage is pitiably small and its material is of low quality.

In winter, scientists of Opex eat this bird under fireworks.

A butcher told me it is the result of a moose and grizzly falling in love, 400 years ago.

~*~

Chattering Flaxbird

It's a bird whose beak is beige. I'm fascinated by this bird's spectacular green plume. It seems to be currently molting. It is carefully washed with a camel hair cloth just before sunrise.

It is kept in a limestone cage. It enjoys singing duets with Piercing Beigebird. The bird sings with a simple clack then a thin chirp twice.

It must be groomed with scissors when it rains.

I fear Cem has been stealing Chattering Flaxbird talons for the treatment of viruses, but I dare not say anything.

~*~

Hungry Hen of Aka Tilanasco

It's a mighty creature. It has conspicuous grey talons, which it preens on the hour. It is recognizable by its melodious song. It seems to be sickly. It is fed worms on a platter at high noon. Its cage is uncomfortably small and its look is inspiring.

Droppings of the Hungry Hen of Aka Tilanasco are turned to a gel by the Tilanascion and used as currency.

I once took a talisman from Aka Tilanasco with a drawing of this creature on the side.

~*~

Greater Falcon of Sbanad

The Piercing Mountain Shrike is a long creature arrayed in downy feathers. It is kept in a limestone cage.

It adopts Portentous Meadow Oriole ptarmiganlets as its own. I'm perplexed by the metallic song of the Greater Falcon of Sbanad. It seems to be energetic. Frequently this species must be groomed with a comb.

In winter, farmers of Sbanad eat this bird under fireworks.

~*~

Redduck

I see a bird with lustrous black feathers. This bird is known by its soothing call. It's somewhat balding. It lives in a steel cage that is uncomfortably small.

People say you can see your future love if you match its squawking in the evening to star twinkling frequencies

~*~

Charming Pink Woods Pecker

Purchased in Vuesse for 135 kurus. Reasonable.

It's a lanky bird arrayed in clear pink feathers. The Charming Pink Woods Pecker has a distinctive, elegant call which it makes in the evening. It sings in a granite cage that is of medium size.

Charming Pink Woods Pecker prefers to build its nest out of reeds, under a creek. It's sickly.

I secretly believe Cem has been stealing Charming Pink Woods Pecker feathers in battle magic, so I should report it.

~*~

Northern Medda Ditch Parrot

Origin debated.

The Northern Medda Ditch Parrot is a tiny bird covered with uniform feathers. It has a knife-like bill. They say the creeping creature's warbling is complex. I see it is somewhat balding. It seems to have laid a little egg! This bodes ill.

It dwells in a brick cage that is large enough to fit two person. It predates Jamibia Ditch Princess.

It must be groomed with a set of tongs when the melons ripen.

~*~

Admirable Dunes Vulture

Acquired as part of the Invitation Initiative.

The Admirable Dunes Vulture is a stout bird with spiky black feathers. Its gunpowder purple bill is prominent. The Admirable Dunes Vulture produces a penetrating song. It's vivacious.

Its cage is of medium size and it was sculpted in the shape of a V. My good friend told me it enjoys singing duets with Northern Cinnabarbird.

It is carefully washed with a mohair cloth when Her Majesty goes to sleep.

~*~

Pa'nenish Booby

I see a squat bird arrayed in clear green feathers. It's hale and hearty.

Its cage is the appropriate size and it was engineered by a diver. A ship captain said it predates Meddese Grebe for food. It is recognizable by its eerie buzz.

It's energetic.

I can't comprehend it but this bird's offal, when ground to dust, are used for cleaning candys.

~*~

Legendary Blackbird

It looks to be a bird with a long-necked body clothed in lustrous feathers. I do not like its cage, perhaps because it is covered in dust.

They say the donkey preys on it occasionally. The bird sings with a simple sound then a complex tweet once. It seems to be dying. It is carefully washed with a linen cloth in sandstorms.

If turned to a gel, its droppings may be combined with potato for a regional roast.

~*~

Blacklimpkin

The Blacklimpkin is an unusual bird arrayed in pale brown feathers. It has a conspicuous green throat. The Blacklimpkin makes a brazen sound which is quite grotesque. It's ill. I admire its cage, maybe because its appearance is acceptable.

I secretly believe Cem has been stealing Blacklimpkin talons for the treatment of viruses, so I should report it.

I dreamed of it last night.

~*~

Ultramarinegoose

It's a long bird clothed in strong brown feathers. It has a notable green bill. I see it is hale and hearty. It seems that it loathes its two eggs.

I adore its cage, maybe because its material is shoddy work. When the stars align the bird nibbles southward. The Ultramarinegoose communicates with a reassuring buzz.

I must report it is ill. I see many eggs near the middle of the cage. Her Majesty will be inconsolable.

I suspect Cem has been stealing Ultramarinegoose eggshells to trade, but I lack evidence.

~*~

Fernwigeon

According to 'Book of Blessing a grave', origin: Northern Medda

It's a long-necked bird with velvety black feathers. It has a glassy beak. Normally the Fernwigeon makes a bold call but when it is calling a mate it makes a metallic warbling. I observe it is dispirited. I see four eggs in the cage's center. Her Majesty will be jubilant.

It is kept in a copper cage. I read its nest is spear-shaped and has been found under foggy places.

I report it is healthy. It looks that it likes its two eggs.

~*~

The Penguin of Pa'nen

It seems to be a bird with a long body dressed in pastel grey feathers. Its knife-like green beak is prominent. It adopts Coastal Fog Oarsman boobylings as its own. This bird produces a sharp call during an eclipse.

It is kept in a brick cage. It's energetic.

It featured in the renowned novel by Gulrah Gazi, Prepare For A Fight With Your Best Friend, along with Legendary Leather Survivor

~*~

Forbidden Snowbird

Origin: Jamibia

I see a bird with smooth red feathers. This bird is known by its grotesque warbling. I admire its cage, could be because it is filthy.

In 'Articles of Meat', the tiger devours it when Usman is in ascendance. I must report it is healthy. I see two eggs in the furthest corner. Possibly peace will come.

In Jamibia they often eat it, with a hint of leek.

~*~

Hunting Stone Hermit

The Hunting Stone Hermit is a sandy fowl. I'm amazed by this bird's prominent throat, which it waves about. The twittering of the Hunting Stone Hermit resembles howling winds and I can't comprehend it. At high noon this species must be groomed with a special fork. It lives in a purple marble cage that is uncomfortably small.

If boiled, its guano may be combined with buckwheat for a regional pie.

It plays a kind of sport with Red Breast Martin, hitting figs, which the monarchy of Southern Medda uses in choosing a successor.

~*~

Violet Throat Crow

Gifted by the generosity of Dr. Ahmet.

It's a beast with a plump body clad in downy feathers. I read in 'Scrolls of Wholeness' by Hatice Suleyman that the Violet Throat Crow makes a brazen buzz when it is in a group. Its cage is uncomfortably small and its material is of high quality.

It exchanges gifts of earrings with Orangeshrike. It seems to be low-energy. It is carefully washed with a linen cloth when Harooni is in ascendance.

Beaks of the Violet Throat Crow are made into a tincture by the Koese and used for cleaning.

~*~

Holy Black Singer

The Holy Black Singer is a mysterious bird dressed in spiny, blue-coloured feathers barred with purple. I'm intrigued by this beast's noteworthy plume. It is kept in a feather cage.

Its nest is made from crystals. It is recognizable by its simple call. It is carefully washed with a cotton cloth in the new moon.

This bird is eaten late at night, dehydrated with a turnip.

~*~

Warbling Hummingbird of Opex

Origin: Opex

The Warbling Hummingbird of Opex is a little bird clothed in pale green feathers. It adores the new black stone in its cage. The bird sings with a short clack then a complex chirp once.

Its cage is of medium size and it is very green. It's currently molting.

I dreamed of it last night.

~*~

Greater Heron of Vuesse

I see a creature with a long body attired in smooth feathers. Its cage is large enough to fit two camel and it was made in the shape of a star.

It flies in the company of Greater Heron of Vuesse. The Greater Heron of Vuesse produces a fearful fluting. It seems to be currently molting. It is carefully washed with a linen cloth in summer.

In Vuesse they often eat it, dressed in boiled fennel.

~*~

Forbidden Silver Writer

The Forbidden Silver Writer is a mysterious fowl with conspicuous purple feathers. Forbidden Silver Writer made its nest in the shape of a tong, out of incense burners. A seer said the Forbidden Silver Writer makes an inspiring call when it is pleased.

It is kept in a glass cage. I observe it is becoming more glossy with time. I see two eggs near the middle of the cage. This bodes well.

They say Her Majesty engineered the Forbidden Silver Writer as part of an initiative.

~*~

Lesser Seafoam Deckswabber

It's a round fowl with noteworthy yellow feathers. I'm amazed by this fowl's prominent black plume. Its cage is smallish and it was made by a deckswabber.

It shares a nest with Ultramarine Tail Owl. The Lesser Seafoam Deckswabber produces an uncanny song. It seems to be vivacious. It is carefully washed with a camel hair cloth frequently.

If turned to a gel, its feathers may be combined with onion for an awful soup.

~*~

Opexi Wren

It's a creeping bird. It has a prominent blue beak, which the writers described in their poem. A woodworker said it hoards seashells, which are often stolen by Inspiring Ditch Fisher. They say the Opexi Wren makes a beautiful squawking when it desires a mate.

It dwells in a stone cage that is of medium size. It looks to be hale and hearty. When it hails this species must be groomed with scissors.

fools in Opex keep this bird in their bathroom

~*~

Vuesse Island Egret

It seems to be a stout bird with green-and-beige feathers. The Vuesse Island Egret makes a sharp sound which is quite calming. It's sickly. It is kept in a copper cage.

I once bought a ladle from Southern Medda with a drawing of this bird on the side.

~*~

Soothing Woods Lemon bird

Origin: Opex

The Soothing Woods Lemon bird is a rotting bird. I'm fascinated by this bird's notable crest, which it preens frequently. Its nest is spear-shaped and has been found close to a creek. The fowl sings with a long trill then a low pipe twice.

It lives in a gold cage that is of medium size. I see it is vivacious. It seems that it doesn't like its two eggs.

I dreamed of it last night.

~*~

Greater Rain Gossip

It seems to be a curious fowl. It has a noteworthy purple beak, which it preens on the hour. It seems to be currently molting. It is carefully washed with a mohair cloth when it smells the ocean.

Its cage is uncomfortably small and its aura is disappointing. The squid hunts it when it sees the sea. Normally the Greater Rain Gossip makes a warming song but when it desires food it makes a thin call.

I see it is healthy. It seems that it loathes its many eggs.

In Vuesse they often eat it, dressed in fermented lobster tripe.

~*~

Inkostrich

It seems to be an imposing bird. It has a knife-like beak, which it waves about. The bird sings with a thin sound then a low chirp thrice. It seems to be dispirited. In the afternoon this species must be groomed with scissors. I quite like its cage, maybe because it was constructed in the shape of a staff.

If ground to dust, its skulls may be combined with turnip for a traditional pie.

I thought it spoke to me, saying: 'withdrawal'.

~*~

Lesser Creeping Grackle

It seems to be a tall creature with prickly purple feathers. It has a spectacular blue beak. It lives on a petite amount of grasshoppers. This bird is known for a long, delicate song.

It is kept in a wicker cage. It is fed alder wood on a platter when it hails.

It is used in tree-cutting.

~*~

Chattering Cedar Flower-seller

It appears to be a graceful beast. I'm interested in its prominent tufted crest, which it waves about. The bird sings with a low chirp then a long pipe twice. It's somewhat balding. It dwells in a bone cage that is pitiably small.

A woodcutter said Her Majesty woven the Chattering Cedar Flower-seller as part of a project.

~*~

The Hummingbird of Opex

It seems to be a long bird with conspicuous blue feathers. It has spectacular brown legs. I admire its cage, maybe because its material is of high quality.

If you can trust my sister, it hunts Piercing Cinnamon Stonemason for food. The The Hummingbird of Opex has a calming warbling and I loathe it. It's dying.

I can't comprehend it but this beast's talons, when turned to a gel, are used for lamp oil.

~*~

Inspiring Islet Puffin

The Inspiring Islet Puffin is a gangly bird attired in wild, blue-coloured feathers laced with red. I'm perplexed by its distinctive tufted crest. The bird sings with a short clack then a rich trill twice. I report it is dispirited. It seems to have laid a delicious-looking egg! Possibly we will be swarmed by ladybugs. Its cage is large enough to fit four keg and its aura is a work of art.

I can't comprehend it but this bird's down, when dried and ground, are used for cleaning coins.

I decided to put a jug and cup in front of it and see which it picks the outcome said: A more experienced man, spiritual leader, or father figure will come into your life ... And so I must believe it..

~*~

Ocean Head Stork

It seems to be a swimming bird. I'm interested in this bird's distinctive crest, which it preens in the early evening. Few know it bathes in the company of Ocean Head Stork. The Ocean Head Stork has a spectacular, soothing song which it makes in the afternoon.

I love its cage, maybe because it was built by a deckswabber. I must report it is sickly. A cold egg twitches up against the cage edge.

I once acquired a jug from Sbanad with a drawing of this bird on the side.

~*~

Coralseagull

I see a funny bird. Its small purple beak is spectacular, which it preens when it senses the ocean. It sleeps in a bronze cage that is uncomfortably small.

It hunts Rubyoriole. This bird is known by its melodious call. It is carefully washed with a feather cloth at low tide.

Offal of the Coralseagull are dried and ground by the Pa'nenish and used as a seasoning.

~*~

Meddese Grackle

Origin debated.

It seems to be a bird whose throat is black. It has a noteworthy red head. I read in 'Scrolls of Persuasion' by Hatice Osman that the moist bird's warbling is bizarre. Its cage is laughably large and its look is poorly conceived.

It enjoys singing duets with Abyssal Ivory Medium. I must report it is low-energy. It seems that it likes its two eggs.

It's a mystery to me but this bird's guano, when boiled, are used for cleaning.

~*~

Opexi Jumper

Has been a part of the Aviary since time immemorial.

It's a bird with conspicuous blue feathers. Normally the Opexi Jumper makes a bold squawking but when it desires food it makes a sedate warbling. It must be groomed with a brush when it hails.

It is kept in a brick cage. Its nest is oval-shaped and has been found in sight of foggy places.

It seems to be sickly. It must be groomed with scissors when the dates ripen.

~*~

Red Head Warbler

I see a beast sheathed in glossy feathers. Its narrow pink bill is prominent. The bird sings with a rich chirp then a simple pipe twice. It is fed worms against its will when the cherries ripen. It dwells in a clay cage that is far too large.

In winter, ladies-in-waiting of Opex eat this creature under pine boughs.

It was alluded to the famous saga by Gulbahar Murad, Back Off, Take A Time Out, And Let Someone Else Handle Things For A While, along with Northern Red Ranger

~*~

Jamibia Cave Owl

It seems to be a bird with a long-legged body with beige-and-orange feathers. It's vivacious.

It suffers in a straw cage that is large enough to fit four horse. It steals beetle shells from Abyssal Enigmatic Princess. I wonder at the strange call of the Jamibia Cave Owl.

It looks to be losing tail feathers. It must be groomed with a paintbrush in the new moon.

In Jamibia they often eat it, dressed in charred rice.

~*~

Greater Swimming Kestrel

Value: approx. 300 kurus.

It looks to be a bird with a lanky body covered with pure brown feathers. It has a notable red beak. People say it seems that it loves look in the nest. The song of the Greater Swimming Kestrel seems either uncanny or complex depending on the phase of the moon.

It is kept in an iron cage. It seems to be somewhat balding. Daily this species must be groomed with a paintbrush.

Her Majesty detests this curious bird... I pray..

~*~

Legendary Striking Crane

It's a gangly bird with distinctive purple feathers. Legendary Striking Crane made its nest in the shape of a tong, out of driftwood. The Legendary Striking Crane communicates with a soothing song.

It is kept in a ceramic cage. It's healthy.

When I am near it I think of activity.

~*~

The Funny Puffin

It appears to be a squat bird with notable red feathers. Its cage is of medium size and it was woven in the shape of a droplet.

It enjoys singing duets with The Creeping Partridge. I'm interested in the metallic call of the The Funny Puffin. It's ill.

In winter, soldiers of Pa'nen eat this creature under pine boughs.

~*~

Cedarlime bird

It's a dainty bird. I appreciate this bird's notable back, which the priestesses described in their story. It is carefully washed with a cotton cloth when it hails.

Its cage is far too large and it contains a brick. Few know it shares a nest with Grotesque Hole Raven. The Cedarlime bird produces a baleful twittering.

It is fed rehydrated onion with a parsnip sauce against its will occasionally.

Everyone knows that the guano of the Cedarlime bird can be calcified and used as a seasoning.

~*~

Holy Green Dreamer

The Holy Green Dreamer is a bird with silky blue feathers. It has noteworthy brown feet. This bird produces a tender warbling when Her Majesty wakes up. It looks to be sickly. It is carefully washed with a velvet cloth late at night. I do not like its cage, perhaps because it contains a brick.

I gather Cem has been stealing Holy Green Dreamer down for cleaning plates, so I should report it.

Everyone knows it is the result of a cricket and llama falling in love, 65 years ago.

~*~

Blood Throat Ruby bird

I see a dainty bird. Its strong brown beak is prominent, which it waves about. The Blood Throat Ruby bird produces a charming song. It is fed ferns against its will on the hour. It is kept in a straw cage.

In Northern Medda they often eat it, garnished with onion (smoked or dehydrated ).

Her Majesty likes the bird, however I don't understand it...

~*~

Abyssal Duskbird

Traded from the Jamibia Aviary.

It seems to be a tall beast attired in deep yellow feathers. It has a narrow beak. I read in 'The Horrifying Change' that its nest is square-shaped and has been found in shadows. The Abyssal Duskbird communicates with a cheerful song.

It is kept in a clay cage. I report it is currently molting. A petite egg sits in the south-most corner.

It reminds me of Cem, in a cold way.

~*~

Southern Peach Carpenter

Donated to the Palace by a rare soldier.

I see a long-necked beast with downy red feathers. Its curved black beak is spectacular. The Southern Peach Carpenter produces a brash song. It's energetic.

It is kept in a marble cage. The bear preys on it when the apples ripen.

Occasionally this species must be groomed with a comb.

~*~

Jamibian Crake

It seems to be a long-legged creature whose tail is grey. It seems to be becoming more uniform with time. It is fed an axlotl thigh garnished with orange (fermented or rehydrated) forcibly when the stars align.

Its cage is large enough to fit two camel and it is a bit dirty. Few know it consumes a keg-weight of seedlings. Normally the Jamibian Crake makes a delightful warbling but when it is pleased it makes a sedate song.

In the evening this species must be groomed with a horsehair brush.

If reduced to powder, its skulls may be combined with leek for a delicious cake.

~*~

Lesser Hawk of Southern Medda

The Lesser Hawk of Southern Medda is a gangly bird with orange-and-brown feathers. It has a short beak. Its cage is laughably large and it is clean.

It exchanges gifts of magnolia petals with Greater Falcon of Sbanad. The Lesser Hawk of Southern Medda makes an eerie sound which is quite pacifying. It looks to be hale and hearty. At high noon this species must be groomed with a paintbrush.

I read in 'The Encyclopedia of Victory' that that the skulls of the Lesser Hawk of Southern Medda can be boiled and used as makeup.

~*~

Vuesse Island Puffin

It seems to be a dripping bird. Its sturdy purple bill is prominent, which I did not expect. It's somewhat balding.

Its cage is uncomfortably small and it is filthy. Vuesse Island Puffin made its nest in the shape of a pipe, out of seaweed. This bird, the Vuesse Island Puffin, makes an alluring twittering or a sound like a crystal bell depending on the phase of the moon

I observe it is hale and hearty. It appears that it does not like its two eggs.

Talons of the Vuesse Island Puffin are reduced to powder by the Vuessi and used in blessing a voyage.

~*~

Sbanadan Teal

I see an imposing bird. Its sturdy red beak is distinctive, which it waves about. It sleeps in a silver cage that is large enough to fit two horse.

They say it hoards eggs, which are often stolen by Thunderous Pass Kite. It is recognizable by its bold call. It seems to be vivacious. In high winds this species must be groomed with a comb.

This bird is eaten in high winds, roasted with a leek.

~*~

Bluecanary

It appears to be a graceful fowl with notable purple feathers. This creature is known for a low, brazen song. It's becoming more sleek with time. Its cage is smallish and its craftsmanship is poorly made.

It makes me want to visit feudal Opex.

~*~

Hungry Desolate Shrike

I see a mighty bird with green-and-black feathers. It seems to be dying. It must be groomed with a brush during an eclipse.

Its cage is pitiably small and it contains an amulet. Hungry Desolate Shrike prefers to create its nest out of cactus needles, near dunes. The Hungry Desolate Shrike has a soothing song and I do not like it.

It's currently molting.

In the dark season, scientists of Sbanad eat this bird under pine boughs.

~*~

Red Tail Chicken

Gifted by a charitable citizen.

It's a bird clad in spiky feathers. I appreciate this bird's spectacular plume. The bird sings with a simple sound then a high tweet twice. It's low-energy.

I quite like its cage, perhaps because it was crafted in the shape of a star. It adopts Ink Belly Vulture peckerlings as its own.

It is fed flies against its will when the cherries ripen.

~*~

Sedate Dunes Condor

It's a beast whose beak is blue. People say the dusty bird's song is gentle. It must be groomed with a brush daily. It dwells in a reeds cage that is uncomfortably small.

In Aka Tilanasco they often eat it, on a bed of cranberry.

I read in Aka Tilanasco that the Sedate Dunes Condor is always to be found near a stonemason.

~*~

Hunting Eagle of Sbanad

Rescued from the the Kitchenmaze by Her Majesty's grace.

I see a bird attired in turbulent, brown-coloured feathers penciled with pink. It has distinctive black toes. The Hunting Eagle of Sbanad has a calming twittering. It appears to be losing tail feathers. It is carefully washed with a camel hair cloth in high winds.

It sleeps in a brick cage that is large enough to fit four large dog. Its nest is mountain-shaped and has been found under eaves of shacks.

I must report it is energetic. It seems that it obsesses over its two eggs.

~*~

Holy Turkey of Ko

It's a fowl with a tall body with green-and-purple feathers. It has notable black toes. It hunts Meddese Falcon on the hour. This bird produces a soft warbling when a hero dies.

It is kept in an iron cage. It seems to be energetic. It is fed a jerky of carrot and almond forcibly when it snows.

An acclaimed fresco in the Royal Square of Ko features Holy Turkey of Ko, allegedly

~*~

Eerie Bay Ibis

Rescued from the the Skygarden by Her Majesty's grace.

I see a gangly bird with pink-and-grey feathers. It has a curved bill. Its nest is made from thread. The Eerie Bay Ibis produces a soft warbling.

Its cage is of medium size and it was constructed by a ship captain. It must be groomed with scissors in the early evening.

I thought it spoke to me, saying: 'confidence'.

~*~

Southern Vulture of Sbanad

It seems to be a creature as big as a camel with conspicuous yellow feathers. It has a spectacular pink beak. It flies in the company of Southern Vulture of Sbanad. The Southern Vulture of Sbanad has a beautiful song.

Its cage is pitiably small and it is sparkling clean. I perceive it is energetic. A great egg has been laid in the nest.

It is central to the The Crickets Carnival.

~*~

Lesser Shrike of Aka Tilanasco

Has been a part of the Aviary since time immemorial.

It's a bird with a round body covered with frizzled, sage-coloured feathers penciled with pink. I'm perplexed by this bird's prominent tail. It obsesses over the new fallen leaf in its cage. The Lesser Shrike of Aka Tilanasco has an ominous squawking and I like it.

I admire its cage, perhaps because it was built by a survivor. I must report it is hale and hearty. It looks that it admires its four eggs.

The people of Pa'nen associate it with enthusiasm.

~*~

Forbidden Twilight Girl

Captured in the local countryside.

The Forbidden Twilight Girl is a strange bird with blue-and-brown feathers. It has a thin beak. My good friend told me it steals small mushrooms from Hunting Eagle of Sbanad. The Forbidden Twilight Girl makes a high sound which is quite gentle.

It lives in a marble cage that is large enough to fit two large dog. It's healthy.

They say I could read my fortune (I'm told to drop feathers from edge of church and read the pattern)

~*~

Piercing Condor of Southern Medda

The Piercing Condor of Southern Medda is a bird with a long body whose throat is beige. It has notable green eyes. In 'Reversals Book', the lion eats it at high noon. The Piercing Condor of Southern Medda's call sounds like a long tweet thrice, then a low sound.

It sleeps in a glass cage that is smallish. I must report it is dying. I see two eggs in the west-most corner. Perhaps storms approach.

It plays a kind of sport with Lemongrouse, carrying seashells, which the monarchy of Southern Medda uses in marriage disputes.

~*~

Coastal Cloudy Ship captain

I see a creature with a plump body with grey-and-pink feathers. It hoards figs, which are often stolen by Beigecrane. The Coastal Cloudy Ship captain produces a pacifying call.

It is kept in a limestone cage. It looks to be losing tail feathers. It is fed an oxtail porridge against its will rarely.

A fisher told me it is the result of a crab and seal falling in love, 1,000 years ago.

~*~

Green Head Swan

I see a bird with green-and-red feathers. I love its cage, maybe because it contains an amulet.

Everyone knows it doesn't like the new food dish in its cage. The Green Head Swan has a prominent, joyful twittering which it makes late at night. I must report it is sickly. I see four eggs in the furthest corner. Possibly storms approach.

A singer said that the fat of the Green Head Swan can be boiled and used for the treatment of diseases.

~*~

Sbanadan Dipper

The Sbanadan Dipper is a dusty bird. I wonder at its distinctive tail, which it waves about. It lives in a straw cage that is large enough to fit two person.

It enjoys singing duets with Warming Mountain Chickadee. It is recognizable by its blaring call. It is carefully washed with a feather cloth at high noon.

I believe Cem has been stealing Sbanadan Dipper feathers for the treatment of diseases, so I should report it.

~*~

Haunting Dune Condor

According to 'Tales of Confidence' by Selim Gazi, origin: Sbanad

I see a desolate beast. I'm intrigued by this beast's conspicuous crest, which the writers described in their saga. It exchanges gifts of slugs with Southern Princess of Jamibia. The Haunting Dune Condor makes a brash sound which is quite thin.

Its cage is enormous and it is a little messy. It must be groomed with scissors sometimes.

A stonemason said it loves the spider.

~*~

Opex Meadow Titmouse

Origin: Opex

I see a small bird, about the size of a fig, with distinctive beige feathers. According to 'Olives Book' by Aynisah Kasim, the Opex Meadow Titmouse makes a charming warbling when it is in a group. It's hale and hearty.

I do not like its cage, maybe because it was made in the shape of a fist. Its nest is spear-shaped and has been found in sight of a creek.

I see it is dispirited. I see two eggs in the nest. Her Majesty will be overjoyed.

~*~

Greater Saffron Butcher

The Greater Saffron Butcher is a tall bird clad in smooth feathers. Its wide yellow beak is conspicuous. The Greater Saffron Butcher's warbling sounds like a simple tweet once, then a high pipe. It is fed almonds in a trough when it's foggy. I quite like its cage, possibly because it was woven by a woodworker.

I thought it spoke to me, saying: 'perspective'.

~*~

Holy Platinum Writer

Captured in valleys near the Palace.

It's an unusual bird. I'm curious about its conspicuous tufted crest, which it preens at moonset. The Holy Platinum Writer's song sounds like a thin trill three times, then a high sound. I must report it is dying. It looks to have laid a smooth egg! This bodes well.

It dwells in a steel cage that is enormous. A sculptor said it does not like the new tong in its cage.

I perceive it is hale and hearty. A repulsive egg lies forgotten in the nest.

~*~

Hungry Orangebird

It seems to be a thirsty fowl. It has distinctive green wingtips, which it waves about. The call of the Hungry Orangebird seems either bizarre or short depending on the season. It seems to be vivacious. It is carefully washed with a wool cloth often. Its cage is far too large and it was woven by a hermit.

It makes me want to visit sandy Southern Medda.

~*~

Northern Creeping Queenbird

It's a small fowl the size of a belt buckle with notable blue feathers. I must report it is becoming more turbulent with time. A tiny egg lies forgotten in the corner.

It dwells in a bronze cage that is far too large. I read in 'Meat Book' that it enjoys singing duets with Gentle Island Pelican. The bird sings with a short trill then a complex pipe three times.

It is carefully washed with a linen cloth thrice a day.

A carpenter said that the eggshells of the Northern Creeping Queenbird can be made into a tincture and used for lamp oil.

~*~

Greater Sandy Kite

I have not been able to determine how it was acquired.

I see a bird with a long-necked body with glossy brown feathers. According to 'Wigeon Encyclopedia', the Greater Sandy Kite produces a sound like wind through trees. I must report it is currently molting. A cracked egg lies forgotten in the nest.

It sings in a pewter cage that is enormous. It hoards beetle shells, which are often stolen by Fearful Ditch Finch.

It seems to be dispirited. In sandstorms this species must be groomed with a special fork.

~*~

Silverquetzal

It appears to be an enigmatic bird whose breast is brown. I'm curious about this bird's distinctive neck. It is recognizable by its pacifying song. It must be groomed with a comb when Usman is in ascendance. Its cage is of medium size and it contains a spoon.

They say I could read my fortune (I'm told to toss the beast's thigh bones)

~*~

Pa'nen Island Albatross

I see a tall bird with glossy black feathers. It has a conspicuous pink belly. It's low-energy.

Its cage is far too large and its appearance is of low quality. It does not like the new marble bead in its cage. This bird is known by its ominous call.

It's becoming more velvety with time.

I suspect Cem has been stealing Pa'nen Island Albatross talons as makeup, but I dare not say anything.

~*~

Singing Olive Climber

It seems to be a long bird with noteworthy purple feathers. It must be groomed with a special fork frequently.

I loathe its cage, maybe because it contains a scale. When the harvest begins the bird digs facing down. The Singing Olive Climber has a haunting call.

I must report it is losing tail feathers. It seems that it does not like its two eggs.

In the dark season, ladies-in-waiting of Northern Medda eat this bird under fireworks.

~*~

Aka Tilanasco Creekbed Vulture

It seems to be a grand bird. I'm interested in its noteworthy tufted crest, which it waves about. I like its cage, possibly because it was built in the shape of a triangle.

According to 'The Reports of Blessing a grave', it hunts The Hummingbird of Opex. I've heard the Aka Tilanasco Creekbed Vulture makes an elegant call when it feels threatened. I report it is hale and hearty. It looks that it does not like its two eggs.

This bird is eaten in high winds, boiled with a carrot.

~*~

Hungry Bony Finch

The Hungry Bony Finch is a stout bird whose neck is black. It has a rounded beak. It is kept in a wicker cage.

It adopts Lesser Crow of Ko chicks as its own. The Hungry Bony Finch's song sounds like a short tweet three times, then a low clack. It must be groomed with a horsehair brush in sandstorms.

Beaks of the Hungry Bony Finch are turned to a gel by the Meddese and used for cleaning crates.

~*~

Honey Throat Catcher

Traded from the Opex Aviary.

It's a diminutive bird whose belly is brown. The song of the Honey Throat Catcher seems either delightful or thunderous depending on the time of day. It sings in a clay cage that is smallish.

Its nest is spear-shaped and has been found in a bridge. It is fed aged rice on a platter when it's foggy.

In the dark season, deer breeders of Opex eat this fowl under fireworks.

~*~

Northern Green Woodworker

I see a bird with noteworthy purple feathers. The Northern Green Woodworker communicates with an eerie call. It must be groomed with a horsehair brush when it rains. Its cage is the appropriate size and its craftsmanship is undeserving of Her Majesty's time.

The people of Pa'nen associate it with evaluation.

~*~

Southern Medda Creekbed Shrike

Origin: Southern Medda

The Southern Medda Creekbed Shrike is a bird with a round body clad in lustrous, tea-coloured feathers mottled with black. I adore this fowl's spectacular back. The bird sings with a complex clack then a high tweet twice. It is kept in a leaves cage.

Its nest is oval-shaped and has been found in an orchard. It's dying.

This bird is eaten on the hour, fermented with an onion.

~*~

Legendary Gold Ranger

Origin: Sbanad Pass

It's a tall creature with black-and-green feathers. The Legendary Gold Ranger makes a metallic sound which is quite tender. It seems to be losing tail feathers. It is fed leaves in a trough in the afternoon.

It is kept in an oakwood cage. Only scholars know it seems that it likes eat near a clump of ceramic.

It seems to be vivacious. It must be groomed with a special fork in sandstorms.

~*~

Saffronfinch

The Saffronfinch is a beast dressed in fluffy feathers. The Saffronfinch's squawking sounds like a long clack twice, then a thin pipe. I see it is currently molting. It seems that it likes its two eggs. Its cage is uncomfortably small and it was constructed by a woodworker.

It was mentioned in the historic story by Ilaldi Kasim, Watch For A Surprising Letter In The Mail, along with Soothing Dune Grouse

~*~

Chattering Bluebird

It's a round bird with green-and-brown feathers. The turtle hunts it when Her Majesty goes to sleep. The Chattering Bluebird has a long call.

It is kept in an oakwood cage. It's becoming more silky with time.

foreigners in Opex keep this bird as pets

~*~

Singing Pheasant of Northern Medda

I see a bird with blue-and-green feathers. It has prominent black toes. The twittering of the Singing Pheasant of Northern Medda resembles any piece of music and I can't comprehend it. It seems to be sickly. It is fed worms forcibly in the afternoon. It is kept in a bone cage.

It's a mystery to me but this bird's droppings, when boiled, are used for lamp oil.

It's an important part of battle magic.

~*~

Koese Dipper

I see a lanky creature whose throat is beige. I adore this fowl's notable purple crest. Its cage is far too large and it is shiny.

They say it hunts Northern Dignified Piper as a metaphor of confidence. The Koese Dipper communicates with an ominous call. It's currently molting.

My close friend told me that the bones of the Koese Dipper can be ground to dust and used in the creation of pottery.

~*~

Blackspider-eater

Origin: Jamibia, where it is uncommon.

It appears to be a stout bird clothed in wild, ash-coloured feathers striped with red. It predates Redbunting twice a season. The Blackspider-eater's song sounds like a low clack once, then a complex chirp.

I adore its cage, perhaps because it is suspiciously clean. It seems to be sickly. It must be groomed with a set of tongs when the stars align.

People say I could read my fortune (I'm told to toss the beast's leg bones)

~*~

Silver Beak Owl

The Silver Beak Owl is an enormous bird, as big as a child, with spectacular red feathers. I adore this bird's noteworthy yellow tufted crest. The Silver Beak Owl communicates with a dire warbling. I report it is becoming more uniform with time. I see two eggs in the nest. This bodes well. Its cage is pitiably small and it was woven in the shape of a circle.

I can't comprehend it but this creature's fat, when dried and ground, are used as makeup.

People say Her Majesty made the Silver Beak Owl as part of an initiative.

~*~

Abyssal Princess of Ko

I see a squat bird clad in pale blue feathers. It has a notable green beak. It is kept in a bone cage.

It adopts The Grownbird chicks as its own. The Abyssal Princess of Ko has a prominent, reassuring song which it makes in the morning. I perceive it is somewhat balding. An asymmetrical egg lies forgotten near the east edge.

In the dark season, foreigners of Ko eat this bird under fireworks.

~*~

Sagevulture

Donated to Her Majesty anonymously.

It's an imposing fowl. I'm curious about its conspicuous plume, which it waves about. It enjoys singing duets with Legendary Shrike of Aka Tilanasco. This bird is known for a long, beautiful song.

It lives in a limestone cage that is of medium size. I perceive it is hale and hearty. I see two eggs near the south edge. Peace will come.

Her Majesty gazes at the bird and waits for its fluting..

~*~

Strident Mountain Hawk

Donated to the Palace by an excellent rider.

I see a bird clothed in vibrant purple feathers. The bird sings with a simple tweet then a long pipe once. Its cage is of medium size and it was built by a farmer.

It looks that it doesn't like sleep in the corner. I see it is energetic. It seems to have laid an average-sized egg! In 'Thought to be extinct Suspension', this means it will lightning storm this year.

I've heard that the down of the Strident Mountain Hawk can be made into a tincture and used in executions.

~*~

Piercing Umberbird

Liberated from a Sbanadan killer. Value: 100 kurus.

I see an ancient bird. It has a noteworthy red tail, which it preens in high winds. The call of the Piercing Umberbird seems either portentous or reassuring depending on its mood. It is kept in a stone cage.

Its nest is made from grass. At high noon this species must be groomed with a special fork.

I suspect Cem has been stealing Piercing Umberbird skulls as a ritual offering, but I have no proof.

~*~

Forbidden Lavender Singer

The Forbidden Lavender Singer is a bird with noteworthy orange feathers. It has a sturdy bill. It looks this bird makes a thunderous song when Her Majesty prays for peace, yet I have not heard it. I perceive it is vivacious. I see two eggs in the cage's center. Maybe storms approach. I adore its cage, maybe because it was made by a dancer.

In winter, gardeners of Ko eat this bird under mistletoe.

A gravedigger said it loves the crab.

~*~

Jamibia Peak Crake

Origin: Jamibia

It appears to be a stout bird attired in pale blue feathers. It has a notable beige bill. The Jamibia Peak Crake's call sounds like a thin pipe thrice, then a short sound. In the morning this species must be groomed with a brush.

It lives in a silver cage that is smallish. Jamibia Peak Crake prefers to build its nest out of sticks, in shadows.

I perceive it is low-energy. It seems to have laid an asymmetrical egg! Her Majesty will be disturbed.

~*~

Fearful Dune Quail

Confiscated from the the Pit.

It seems to be a desolate bird. It has a spectacular pink throat, which the writers described in their song. The Fearful Dune Quail has a soft call and I don't like it. It is kept in a silver cage.

A miner told me its nest is made from spider bones. It's becoming more silky with time.

In Southern Medda they often eat it, with a hint of almond.

~*~

The Orange Woodworker

Origin: Opex, where it is common.

It seems to be a giant bird, as big as a person, clad in pale green feathers. I'm fascinated by this bird's spectacular tufted crest. It is recognizable by its elegant song. It's ill.

Its cage is the appropriate size and it was built by a woodcutter. According to 'Change Book' by Sofiye Gazi, it appears that it loves dig by a feeder.

I perceive it is hale and hearty. It appears to have laid a blotchy egg! The Keepers must come interpret its meaning.

~*~

Southern Silver Shaman

It appears to be a bird arrayed in glossy, leather-coloured feathers barred with grey. It has a prominent green tail. My friend told me Southern Silver Shaman prefers to construct its nest out of crystals, in sight of caves. The Southern Silver Shaman produces a pacifying song.

It sings in a pewter cage that is uncomfortably small. It's energetic.

I dreamed of it last night.

~*~

Rustostrich

It seems to be a bony bird. It has prominent grey feet, which it waves about. I'm fascinated by the pacifying call of the Rustostrich. It is fed an almond garnished with parsnip (roasted or dehydrated) in a trough sometimes. It is kept in a reeds cage.

Down of the Rustostrich are turned to a gel by the Meddese and used for lamp oil.

Few know it adores the donkey.

~*~

Southern Medda Trail Quail

It's a bird clad in uniform, grown-coloured feathers mottled with yellow. It's dispirited.

It dwells in a ceramic cage that is smallish. It devours Lemongrouse for food. I read the Southern Medda Trail Quail makes a pacifying song when it feels threatened.

It's becoming more downy with time.

Feathers of the Southern Medda Trail Quail are calcified by the Meddese and used for cleaning ropes.

~*~

Short Mountain Wigeon

They say the bird came here of its own accord.

I see a gangly bird clothed in frizzled feathers. This bird is known by its pacifying buzz. It's becoming more uniform with time.

It suffers in a wicker cage that is the appropriate size. I've heard it adopts Blackcrake babys as its own.

It seems to be low-energy. At high tide this species must be groomed with a horsehair brush.

~*~

Warbling Creeper of Northern Medda

The Warbling Creeper of Northern Medda is a fowl with complex orange feathers. Normally the Warbling Creeper of Northern Medda makes an ominous song but when it is spring it makes a delightful call. I observe it is becoming more coarse with time. It seems to have laid a tiny egg! This bodes ill. It is kept in an oakwood cage.

I worry Cem has been stealing Warbling Creeper of Northern Medda skulls in battle magic, so I should report it.

In 'The Tales of Validation' (translation courtesy of Cem), in Northern Medda that the Warbling Creeper of Northern Medda is always to be found near a woodworker.

~*~

Penetrating Dune Scaup

It's a petite fowl, no bigger than a kettle, dressed in turbulent, cinnabar-coloured feathers laced with orange. It exchanges gifts of grubs with The Creeping Partridge. This bird is known by its reassuring call.

It sings in a brick cage that is far too large. I perceive it is currently molting. It seems that it loves its two eggs.

My mother told me you can see your future love if you match its squawking late at night to the Holy Books

~*~

Long Canopy Fern bird

Origin: Northern Medda

We are told it is an egg. I suspect it is a stone because this bird surely does not exist.

~*~

Southern Medda Wash Finch

I see a bird with a stout body with irregular pink feathers. If you can trust my brother, the Southern Medda Wash Finch makes a delicate song when it desires a mate. It seems to be ill. It must be groomed with a paintbrush often. Its cage is far too large and it was sculpted in the shape of a mountain.

When I am near it I think of reversals.

~*~

Meddese Hawk

It looks to be a fowl with a plump body whose beak is red. I appreciate this beast's notable purple plume. Its cage is pitiably small and it contains a candle.

A stonemason said it shares a nest with Legendary Grown Welder. The song of the Meddese Hawk resembles a flute and I don't understand it. It seems to be low-energy. It is carefully washed with a silk cloth in high winds.

Feathers of the Meddese Hawk are dried and ground by the Meddese and used for cleaning.

~*~

Northern Strange Princess

It seems to be a secretive beast. I'm interested in this bird's prominent tail, which it preens in the new moon. The Northern Strange Princess has a mysterious buzz. I report it is dispirited. It seems that it admires its two eggs. It is kept in a ceramic cage.

The belly is supposedly powerful medicine, capable of curing finger pains.

~*~

Ginger Tail Grackle

According to 'The Wholeness Book', origin: Northern Medda

The Ginger Tail Grackle is a graceful fowl. It has notable yellow toes, which it waves about. Normally the Ginger Tail Grackle makes an ominous fluting but when it desires food it makes a sharp twittering. It lives in a stone cage that is the appropriate size.

When the harvest begins the bird peers away from me. I observe it is healthy. It seems to have laid a motionless egg! Her Majesty will be disturbed.

This bird is eaten on the hour, rehydrated with a leek.

~*~

Lesser Snow Singer

Purchased in Pa'nen for 850 kurus.

It's a long bird with distinctive yellow feathers. The Lesser Snow Singer has a conspicuous, simple warbling which it makes at sunrise. Its cage is uncomfortably small and it is filthy.

Only scholars know it steals pebbles from Cheerful Cave Owl. Occasionally this species must be groomed with a set of tongs.

If calcified, its guano may be combined with leek for a regional cake.

~*~

The Dusty Falcon

I see a desolate bird sheathed in prickly, gold-coloured feathers spotted with beige. I'm curious about this beast's distinctive black tail. The The Dusty Falcon makes a sedate sound which is quite bewitching. It is fed crickets on a platter daily. It sings in a reeds cage that is far too large.

It's a mystery to me but this bird's feathers, when ground to dust, are used as a ritual offering.

Its eyes are worth a lot, especially in Southern Medda.

~*~

Delightful Ditch Kite

Origin: Aka Tilanasco

It seems to be a bird with a lanky body clad in complex feathers. I'm curious about its notable plume. The Delightful Ditch Kite communicates with a piercing call. I observe it is low-energy. I see two eggs near the north edge. They say this means it will rain in two weeks.

Its cage is enormous and its look is of remarkably high quality. It hunts Greater Saffron Butcher for food.

I must report it is currently molting. It appears that it likes its many eggs.

~*~

Bloodeater

It's a small creature with green-and-pink feathers. It has a small beak. The Bloodeater produces a bizarre fluting. It's hale and hearty. It is kept in a silver cage.

In the dark season, debtors of Northern Medda eat this bird under mistletoe.

People say it hates the elk.

~*~

Silverbunting

Captured in fields near the Palace.

The Silverbunting is a bird with complex orange feathers. It has a prominent purple back. The Silverbunting has a mysterious call. It sings in a bronze cage that is far too large.

It appears that it admires twitter in the corner. It seems to be ill. It is fed butterflies in a trough when it snows.

Bones of the Silverbunting are boiled by the Jamibian and used for lamp oil.

~*~

Baleful Ditch Gull

It seems to be a bird with a lanky body arrayed in prickly, yellow-coloured feathers penciled with brown. Its cage is uncomfortably small and it contains a chair.

It hoards leaves, which are often stolen by Fernwigeon. The Baleful Ditch Gull has a complex squawking. It is fed a porridge of orange and hot-potato on a platter at sunset.

If calcified, its offal may be combined with almond for a ghastly bake.

~*~

Jamibian Dove

It seems to be an intriguing bird arrayed in vivid green feathers. This creature produces a blaring song during an eclipse. It's hale and hearty. I don't like its cage, perhaps because it was made in the shape of a prism.

Guano of the Jamibian Dove are boiled by the Jamibian and used as a seasoning.

Its feathers may be used in conjuration.

~*~

Grey Back Shrike

Rescued from the the Pit by Her Majesty's grace.

Two eggs, nestled in a nest of lion bones.

~*~

Hungry Condor of Aka Tilanasco

The Hungry Condor of Aka Tilanasco is a long-necked bird with notable pink feathers. It dwells in a wicker cage that is the appropriate size.

It steals eggs from Holy Turkey of Ko. The Hungry Condor of Aka Tilanasco has an ominous call. It seems to be losing tail feathers. It must be groomed with a horsehair brush often.

In Aka Tilanasco they often eat it, on a bed of almond.

~*~

Eastern Stonebird

According to 'The Scrolls of Piper', origin: Aka Tilanasco

It appears to be a bird with a squat body whose tail is beige. I'm perplexed by the strident call of the Eastern Stonebird. It must be groomed with a set of tongs once a quarter.

It is kept in a bone cage. Few know it seems that it loves twitter near the food.

It is fed boiled almond by hand at high noon.

~*~

Vuessi Puffin

It's a bird whose throat is green. My friend told me the Vuessi Puffin makes an uplifting song when it desires food. It seems to be losing tail feathers. It must be groomed with scissors when the wind blows in from the ocean. It is kept in a silver cage.

When I am near it I think of capability.

~*~

Coastal Fogbird

Purchased in Jamibia for 95,000 kurus. A fair deal.

The Coastal Fogbird is a bird with silky grey feathers. It has a salmon bill. The bird sings with a low clack then a simple chirp once. Its cage is pitiably small and it is dirty.

It shares a nest with Lesser Dignified Quail. I perceive it is energetic. I see two eggs near the middle of the cage. Few know this means Vuesse will join the war, as our enemy.

My spy told me that the rib bones of the Coastal Fogbird can be ground to dust and used as a seasoning.

~*~

Beige Throat Condor

It looks to be an ancient creature. I'm perplexed by this bird's conspicuous red tail, which it waves about. It is recognizable by its joyful song. It seems to be vivacious. It is carefully washed with a mohair cloth sometimes. Its cage is far too large and it contains a candle.

Her Majesty requested Beige Throat Condor specifically, maybe because it reminds her of change...

~*~

Melodious Wash Snake-eater

It seems to be a gangly fowl clothed in vivid beige feathers. It has a conspicuous grey bill. The Melodious Wash Snake-eater has a noteworthy, soft song which it makes just before sunrise. It appears to be becoming more frizzled with time. In high winds this species must be groomed with a brush. Its cage is large enough to fit two horse and it was made in the shape of an elipse.

According to 'Rare Poppy', that the talons of the Melodious Wash Snake-eater can be reduced to powder and used to trade.

Her Majesty likes the bird, perhaps because it reminds her of evaluation...

~*~

Singing Greybird

It's a bird sheathed in coarse feathers. It has a sharp beak. The turtle predates it often. Normally the Singing Greybird makes a brash squawking but when it is spring it makes a delicate song.

Its cage is of medium size and it was built in the shape of a star. It looks to be vivacious. At midnight this species must be groomed with a set of tongs.

I've heard it is the result of a bear and mandrill falling in love, 135 years ago.

~*~

Pewterstork

I see a bird with a long body with brown-and-black feathers. I read in 'Wonderful Booby Book' that the Pewterstork makes a portentous call when it desires a mate. It's healthy. It is kept in a brick cage.

This bird is eaten when the wind blows in from the ocean, smoked with an oxtail.

It makes me want to visit weak Pa'nen.

~*~

Northern Medda Red woods Bunting

Traded from the Northern Medda Aviary.

I see a pretty beast. It has prominent yellow talons, which I didn't expect. They say the Northern Medda Red woods Bunting makes a thin chirping when it is calling its young. It seems to be sickly. It is carefully washed with a feather cloth when the figs ripen.

Its cage is of medium size and it was created by a climber. A woodcutter told me it shares a nest with Gentle Cave Owl.

It's vivacious.

~*~

Green Head Cuckoo

Liberated from a Jamibian criminal. Value: 120 kurus.

It appears to be a fowl with a round body sheathed in prickly feathers. I appreciate this bird's noteworthy plume. The Green Head Cuckoo has a high call and I adore it. It is kept in a pewter cage.

It exchanges gifts of moths with Abyssal Snowbird. I observe it is hale and hearty. It seems to have laid a cracked egg! The Keepers must come interpret its meaning.

In Jamibia they often eat it, followed by a bowl of onion-coffee.

~*~

Simple Hole Crow

I see an elegant beast. It has spectacular black eyes, which it preens when it snows. I've heard the intriguing creature's warbling is admirable. It's low-energy. I love its cage, possibly because its aura is shoddy work.

In winter, ladies-in-waiting of Jamibia eat this bird under mistletoe.

It plays a kind of sport with Delightful Hole Crow, hitting achillea petals, which the monarchy of Jamibia uses in weddings.

~*~

SPRING

It is spring. Muddy, muddy spring. The season of renewal, and nearly the end of my year-long task.

To invoke the correct auspices for this final chapter, I have dutifully chanced upon a cricket and eaten a mint bowl. May Cem prove to be a faithful lover, and may Her Majesty smile upon my efforts.

~*~

Opex Beige woods Duck

It's a creature whose head is grey. I'm amazed by this bird's notable tail. This bird produces a baleful call when a Blessed One dies. It's somewhat balding. I quite like its cage, maybe because its craftsmanship is of high quality.

Rib bones of the Opex Beige woods Duck are turned to a gel by the Opexi and used as currency.

It featured in the celebrated poem by Husnusah Hatun, You're Worn Out, along with Greater Bloodbird

~*~

Greater Ink Scientist

It's a mighty bird with spiny beige feathers. It has prominent green underparts. The warbling of the Greater Ink Scientist seems either uncanny or admirable depending on whether it is well fed. It's ill. Its cage is far too large and its appearance is acceptable.

Guano of the Greater Ink Scientist are dried and ground by the Sbanadan and used for cleaning.

Her Majesty is said to love its plume as trim on her scepter..

~*~

Western Black Writer

It seems to be a squat bird whose tail is yellow. It has a spectacular grey throat. The Western Black Writer produces a sedate chirping. It appears to be vivacious. When Her Majesty holds court this species must be groomed with a comb. It is kept in a ceramic cage.

It reminds me of Cem, in a disturbing way.

~*~

Jamibian Piper

The Jamibian Piper is a bird whose tail is purple. Its knife-like beige bill is notable. The Jamibian Piper makes a baleful sound which is quite thunderous. It looks to be dispirited. When Hankari is in ascendance this species must be groomed with a set of tongs. It is kept in a wicker cage.

If ground to dust, its feathers may be combined with basil for a traditional bowl.

I once took a goblet from Ko with a drawing of this bird on the side.

~*~

Thin Dune Hawk

It appears to be a round bird clothed in irregular, pink-coloured feathers laced with beige. I'm perplexed by the warming warbling of the Thin Dune Hawk. It must be groomed with scissors occasionally. Its cage is laughably large and it was woven by a scout.

I fear Cem has been stealing Thin Dune Hawk talons in the creation of oil, but I dare not say anything.

They say it loves the lizard.

~*~

Southern Grand Titmouse

It's a bird with a tall body with red-and-black feathers. I adore this bird's spectacular crest. Normally the Southern Grand Titmouse makes a bold song but when it is calling its young it makes a strange twittering. It's dying. Its cage is large enough to fit two horse and it was constructed by a hermit.

It's a mystery to me but this fowl's rib bones, when turned to a gel, are used as a ritual offering.

A wanderer told me it hates the snake.

~*~

Sand Tail Hawk

It looks to be a squat bird with yellow-and-pink feathers. The Sand Tail Hawk produces a thin warbling. It seems to be ill. It is fed crickets on a platter in high winds. It suffers in a marble cage that is laughably large.

This fowl is eaten at sunrise, shredded with a cherry.

According to 'Regional Almonds', Her Majesty made the Sand Tail Hawk as part of an initiative.

~*~

Tilanascion Ostrich

It's an imposing fowl. I'm fascinated by its spectacular plume, which I was surprised by. I read in 'The Book of Success' (final Edition) that it shares a nest with Admirable Dunes Vulture. The Tilanascion Ostrich produces an uplifting buzz.

It is kept in a brick cage. I perceive it is energetic. A repulsive egg rolls around in the cage's center.

They say it is the result of a tarantula and jackal falling in love, 1,000 years ago.

~*~

Aka Tilanasco Trail Hen

I see a creature as big as a large dog arrayed in turbulent feathers. Only scholars know it hunts Coastal Bluebird. The Aka Tilanasco Trail Hen has a noteworthy, admirable fluting which it makes in the early evening.

It is kept in a sandstone cage. It seems to be healthy. It is carefully washed with a velvet cloth in sandstorms.

I decided to toss the bird's thigh bones the outcome said: A father figure arrives ... Couldn't be further from the truth..

~*~

Hungry Sparrow of Sbanad

The Hungry Sparrow of Sbanad is a creature with a squat body with red-and-black feathers. It is kept in a silver cage.

I read Hungry Sparrow of Sbanad prefers to build its nest out of sticks, in a cactus. It is recognizable by its thin call. It's currently molting.

In spring, scientists of Sbanad eat this bird under pomegranate blossoms.

~*~

Tilanascion Swallow

I see a desolate bird whose tail is brown. The bird sings with a short sound then a simple clack three times. It seems to be low-energy. It must be groomed with a comb in high winds. It is kept in a ceramic cage.

I don't know why but this bird's bones, when reduced to powder, are used as a ritual offering.

girls in Aka Tilanasco keep this bird as pets

~*~

The Ptarmigan of Jamibia

Gifted to the Aviary by a magister in Northen Medda.

The The Ptarmigan of Jamibia is a tall bird clothed in velvety feathers. Normally the The Ptarmigan of Jamibia makes a gentle call but when it is alone it makes an elegant twittering. Its cage is enormous and it was made in the shape of a star.

Few know it preys on Koese Blackbill. It must be groomed with a special fork when Zakariya is in ascendance.

In Jamibia they often eat it, in a sauce of strawberry and cherry.

~*~

Charming Trail Wigeon

Sold by a Sbanadan dealer for 65 kurus.

It's a creature with a long body with sleek blue feathers. It has a curved beak. The Charming Trail Wigeon communicates with a soothing call. It is kept in a limestone cage.

It enjoys singing duets with Piercing Beigebird. It's ill.

A ranger said that the rib bones of the Charming Trail Wigeon can be reduced to powder and used for cleaning hats.

~*~

Plumturkey

It seems to be a lumbering bird, as big as a camel, covered with frizzled feathers. I appreciate its notable plume. This bird is known by its jubilant song. It is fed caterpillars as a treat sometimes. I love its cage, possibly because it contains a telescope.

They say in Northern Medda that the Plumturkey is always to be found near a flower-seller.

~*~

Meddese Vireo

The Meddese Vireo is a lonely bird. I adore its conspicuous crest, which I expected. The Meddese Vireo produces a melodious squawking. It is fed a mint bowl forcibly in winter. I love its cage, maybe because it contains a scale.

If dried and ground, its guano may be combined with yellow onion for a delicious salad.

A famous sculpture in the Royal Library of Southern Medda features Meddese Vireo, called A Legal Verdict Will Be Rendered Soon, by Sirin Murad

~*~

Lesser Flaxbird

I see a bird whose tail is blue. The Lesser Flaxbird's squawking sounds like a low pipe twice, then a simple clack. I must report it is dying. It seems that it doesn't like its four eggs. Its cage is the appropriate size and it is very green.

Guano of the Lesser Flaxbird are made into a tincture by the Meddese and used as a ritual offering.

According to 'Objection Book' (Chapter Eighteen), it is the result of a moose and iguana falling in love, 600 years ago.

~*~

Opexi Creeper

The Opexi Creeper is a tall bird with spiky pink feathers. It has a wide bill. The bird sings with a high clack then a long trill twice. It must be groomed with a set of tongs at sunrise. Its cage is the appropriate size and it was woven by a carpenter.

In Opex they often eat it, on a bed of apricot.

Its feathers may be used in battle magic.

~*~

Piercing Tan Welder

Origin debated.

I see two eggs next to the nest. Her Majesty will be overwhelmed.

~*~

Eastern Slatebird

The Eastern Slatebird is a beast with spectacular purple feathers. When the wind blows in from the sea this species must be groomed with scissors.

I loathe its cage, possibly because it is freshly cleaned. If you can trust my spy, it enjoys singing duets with Coralseagull. Normally the Eastern Slatebird makes a high warbling but when it is in a group it makes a short song.

I observe it is dispirited. I see four eggs in the nest. This bodes ill.

They say that the rib bones of the Eastern Slatebird can be ground to dust and used in blessing a grave.

~*~

Vuesse Peninsula Albatross

Rescued from the the Pit by Her Majesty's grace.

The Vuesse Peninsula Albatross is a beast with a lanky body arrayed in glossy feathers. It steals bugs from Haunting Dune Condor. The Vuesse Peninsula Albatross has a soothing call and I love it.

It is kept in a bone cage. It appears to be becoming more complex with time. When the wind blows in from the ocean this species must be groomed with scissors.

The people of Sbanad associate it with change.

~*~

Teavulture

It seems to be a stout bird clothed in velvety feathers. It has a distinctive yellow back. Normally the Teavulture makes a piercing song but when it is upset it makes a strident call. On the hour this species must be groomed with a horsehair brush. It is kept in a purple marble cage.

It's an important part of executions.

~*~

Cheerful Deep Jungle Oriole

The Cheerful Deep Jungle Oriole is a tiny bird attired in complex, clay-coloured feathers striped with grey. I appreciate the gentle chirping of the Cheerful Deep Jungle Oriole. It is carefully washed with a velvet cloth rarely. I admire its cage, maybe because it is alive with moths.

I don't understand it but this bird's skulls, when calcified, are used for the treatment of ear difficulties.

Related to this bird and its meaning, scriptures say:

'Prepare to take something on faith,
Get ready for huge changes: break-ups, sudden calls from old friends, and unexpected setbacks,
Watch for a surprising letter in the mail'

It makes me feel uneasy..

~*~

Brownwren

I see an imposing bird with conspicuous pink feathers. It has a curved bill. It looks to be dying. It is fed locusts as a treat in sandstorms.

It is kept in a wicker cage. Its nest is made from twigs. The Brownwren has a long squawking and I adore it.

It is fed a salad of apricot and strawberry on a platter when Her Majesty wakes up.

I think Cem has been stealing Brownwren talons in the creation of pottery, but I have no proof.

~*~

Silver Head Scaup

I have not been able to determine how it was acquired.

It is only an egg for now, thumbnail-sized and ghostly.

~*~

Northern Greenbird

I see a graceful bird whose head is green. It has noteworthy blue talons. It loves the new orange stone in its cage. The Northern Greenbird produces a dire chirping.

It is kept in a straw cage. I observe it is energetic. I see two eggs under the food. Maybe the grapes of the groves are poisoned.

I decided to put an arrow and scale in front of it and see which it picks the outcome said: Rather than be dazzled by fancy words and promises, demand something real ... A distorted reflection of reality..

~*~

Southern Medda Creekbed Eagle

Gifted to the Aviary by a hero in Opex.

We are told it is an egg. I suspect it is a sculpture because it was acquired so cheaply.

~*~

Lesser Vulture of Sbanad

Origin debated.

It seems to be a bird whose head is green. I appreciate the piercing call of the Lesser Vulture of Sbanad. In the evening this species must be groomed with scissors.

Its cage is laughably large and it was engineered in the shape of a mountain. I've heard it adopts Meddese Hawk lion-eaterlings as its own.

It seems to be dispirited. It must be groomed with a brush in sandstorms.

~*~

Northern Cloud Braggart

The Northern Cloud Braggart is a stout fowl clothed in coarse feathers. The song of the Northern Cloud Braggart seems either piercing or eerie depending on its mood. It's dispirited. I loathe its cage, possibly because it contains a ribbon.

I gather Cem has been stealing Northern Cloud Braggart bones for cleaning coins, but I have no proof.

I dreamed of it last night.

~*~

Southern Indigobird

The Southern Indigobird is a bird whose tail is grey. It is kept in a ceramic cage.

People say Southern Indigobird made its nest in the shape of an incense burner, out of seaweed. The Southern Indigobird communicates with a bizarre warbling. I perceive it is healthy. It seems to have laid an elongated egg! This bodes well.

In Pa'nen they often eat it, dressed in steamed nut.

~*~

Coastal Striking Seagull

The Coastal Striking Seagull is a large bird, bigger than a keg, with noteworthy brown feathers. Normally the Coastal Striking Seagull makes a charming song but when it is calling its young it makes an eerie warbling. It must be groomed with a paintbrush when it sees the sea. I like its cage, maybe because it contains a spoon.

I dreamed of it last night.

~*~

Eastern Albatross of Pa'nen

Sold by a Pa'nenish aviarist for 90 kurus.

The Eastern Albatross of Pa'nen is a long-necked fowl sheathed in pale pink feathers. This bird is known for a short, pacifying song. I perceive it is hale and hearty. It appears to have laid an unremarkable egg! The Keepers must come interpret its meaning.

I adore its cage, maybe because its look is of high quality. Eastern Albatross of Pa'nen made its nest in the shape of a blade, out of sticks.

I report it is low-energy. It seems to have laid a giant egg! Her Majesty will be inconsolable.

~*~

Plum Breast Bunting

It appears to be a plump fowl sheathed in sleek, gold-coloured feathers barred with brown. It suffers in a straw cage that is the appropriate size.

They say it loathes the new food dish in its cage. The Plum Breast Bunting communicates with a tender song. It's somewhat balding.

In spring, girls of Opex eat this bird under blown eggs.

~*~

Warbling Eater of Opex

The Warbling Eater of Opex is a fowl with a stout body attired in fluffy feathers. It's vivacious.

Its cage is laughably large and its aura is inspiring. It adopts Forbidden Duskbird parrotlings as its own. Normally the Warbling Eater of Opex makes a gentle squawking but when it is alone it makes a metallic buzz.

It is fed an apricot garnished with mint (fresh or sliced) in a trough in late summer.

If reduced to powder, its eggshells may be combined with strawberry for a tasty bowl.

~*~

Hungry Hen of Southern Medda

It's a grand fowl. I wonder at its prominent tufted crest, which it waves about. If you can trust my good friend, the Hungry Hen of Southern Medda makes a blaring call when it desires a mate. It seems to be healthy. It must be groomed with a paintbrush in high winds. It sleeps in a leaves cage that is uncomfortably small.

Guano of the Hungry Hen of Southern Medda are ground to dust by the Meddese and used for cleaning sticks.

orphans in Southern Medda keep this bird in their dining room

~*~

Aka Tilanasco Dune Eagle

It's an enormous fowl, as big as a keg, dressed in deep orange feathers. In the early evening the bird nibbles facing east. The Aka Tilanasco Dune Eagle has a conspicuous, tender call which it makes just before sunrise.

Its cage is pitiably small and it was built in the shape of an O. It's low-energy.

A famous freize in the Public Palace of Aka Tilanasco features Aka Tilanasco Dune Eagle, called A New Personal Or Professional Relationship Blossoms, by Sirin Suleyman

~*~

Southern Ruby Flower-seller

It seems to be a bird with a tall body clothed in silky, brown-coloured feathers spangled with beige. Its lichen black bill is conspicuous. They say the Southern Ruby Flower-seller produces a sound like a man's voice. It is carefully washed with a wool cloth late at night. It dwells in a sandstone cage that is far too large.

It reminds me of Cem, in a cold way.

~*~

Hunting Condor of Southern Medda

I see a desolate bird. I love this bird's conspicuous black crest, which it waves about. It is kept in a leaves cage.

I've heard it enjoys singing duets with Meddese Quail. The Hunting Condor of Southern Medda has a warming song. It is carefully washed with a camel hair cloth in high winds.

A welder told me that the down of the Hunting Condor of Southern Medda can be turned to a gel and used as a seasoning.

~*~

Meddese Wigeon

It's a bird sheathed in vivid brown feathers. It has a notable grey beak. It eats Piercing Brown Welder. The song of the Meddese Wigeon seems either elegant or long depending on its mood.

I adore its cage, maybe because it was made in the shape of a bow-and-arrow. I report it is vivacious. It seems to have laid a repulsive egg! This bodes ill.

It reminds me of Cem, in a subtle way.

~*~

Coastal Piper of Pa'nen

It seems to be a long-necked bird with spiny green feathers. I'm curious about its conspicuous tufted crest. It suffers in a reeds cage that is enormous.

Only scholars know it hoards jasmine petals, which are often stolen by Lesser Seagull of Vuesse. This bird is known by its complex call. It is fed bugs by hand when Her Majesty's ship docks.

If dried and ground, its feathers may be combined with nut for a fantastic bowl.

~*~

Bizarre Dunes Ostrich

The Bizarre Dunes Ostrich is a plump bird with frizzled purple feathers. Its rounded brown beak is notable. The Bizarre Dunes Ostrich makes a reassuring sound which is quite elegant. It's healthy. Its cage is smallish and it is a bit dirty.

A celebrated fresco in the Royal Square of Sbanad features Bizarre Dunes Ostrich, unfortunately

~*~

Strident Jungle Grackle

Captured in a nearby ditch.

The Strident Jungle Grackle is a bird with black-and-green feathers. It has a prominent brown beak. Its nest is monkey-shaped and has been found by damp corners. The Strident Jungle Grackle's warbling sounds like a long tweet three times, then a high chirp.

It is kept in a reeds cage. I report it is sickly. A cold egg rolls around in the food.

Related to this bird and its talents, scriptures say:

'Don't hold back; say what you really mean,
Don't be surprised by a personal attack,
Back off, take a time out, and let someone else handle things for a while'

I don't know what to think..

~*~

The Redbird

Sold by a Vuessi bird-seller for 90 kurus. A fair deal.

I see a long-legged bird attired in deep green feathers. The The Redbird has a prominent, short song which it makes late at night. It's energetic.

Its cage is laughably large and it is freshly cleaned. It consumes a ton of grasshoppers.

It's low-energy.

~*~

Leatherfalcon

Origin: Sbanad

It looks to be a fowl with a long-legged body with lustrous orange feathers. The bird sings with a complex pipe then a high chirp three times. I don't like its cage, maybe because it was woven by a scout.

It shares a nest with Sbanad Pass Ostrich. It's vivacious.

People say that the eggshells of the Leatherfalcon can be turned to a gel and used as currency.

~*~

Warming Dunes Dove

Rescued from Early summer Festival by Her Majesty's compassion.

The Warming Dunes Dove is a bird as big as a person attired in sleek, umber-coloured feathers laced with orange. I'm intrigued by its notable crest. Warming Dunes Dove prefers to create its nest out of coyote bones, under mountains. The call of the Warming Dunes Dove seems either sharp or reassuring depending on whether it is night or day.

I loathe its cage, could be because it was woven by a survivor. I must report it is energetic. I see two eggs next to the nest. The Keepers must come interpret its meaning.

I've heard it is the result of a tarantula and lion falling in love, 380 years ago.

~*~

Tender Ditch Prince

Origin: Ko

The Tender Ditch Prince is a tall bird covered with irregular, tea-coloured feathers mottled with black. I wonder at the charming squawking of the Tender Ditch Prince. It must be groomed with a set of tongs on the hour.

It dwells in a steel cage that is laughably large. When the stars align the bird eats facing south.

I see it is losing tail feathers. It appears to have laid a pointy egg! The Keepers must come interpret its meaning.

~*~

Forbidden Silver Artist

It's a great bird, as big as a camel, with turbulent purple feathers. It is kept in an oakwood cage.

They say it eats Greater Falcon of Sbanad in late winter. This bird produces a high twittering when a princess dies. It appears to be currently molting. It must be groomed with a special fork when Khoja is in ascendance.

It's a mystery to me but this fowl's offal, when boiled, are used for lamp oil.

~*~

Opexi Swan

It's a gangly fowl sheathed in strong yellow feathers. It has conspicuous green underparts. I see it is becoming more uniform with time. I see four eggs in the nest. We will be swarmed by mosquitos.

It is kept in a straw cage. Daily the bird nibbles in my direction. The Opexi Swan's chirping sounds like a long clack twice, then a simple chirp.

I observe it is ill. It appears that it likes its two eggs.

If reduced to powder, its guano may be combined with apricot for a traditional salad.

~*~

Ivory Throat Crake

Gifted to Her Majesty long before my time.

It seems to be a tiny bird the size of a fig with distinctive yellow feathers. I read the strange bird's song is charming. It is kept in a leaves cage.

It hunts Greater Swimming Kestrel. It appears to be vivacious. It is fed a salad of bread and mint as a treat frequently.

Droppings of the Ivory Throat Crake are dried and ground by the Koese and used as makeup.

~*~

Western Blue Hedonist

It's a lumbering beast, bigger than a child, attired in clear black feathers. It looks to be vivacious. It is carefully washed with a camel hair cloth at high tide.

I do not like its cage, perhaps because it contains an arrow. It enjoys singing duets with Red Breast Martin. The Western Blue Hedonist has a blustering song.

It looks to be currently molting. It is fed worms forcibly during The Blessed One's Anniversary.

If made into a tincture, its beaks may be combined with cherry for a traditional salad.

~*~

Southern Quit of Northern Medda

Origin: Northern Medda

It's an enormous bird, as big as a horse, with green-and-grey feathers. The beast sings with a rich trill then a low tweet thrice. I perceive it is dispirited. It seems that it does not like its two eggs.

I don't like its cage, perhaps because it is overgrown with almonds. They say Southern Quit of Northern Medda made its nest in the shape of a goblet, out of straw.

At sunset this species must be groomed with a comb.

~*~

Goldeagle

Purchased in Vuesse for 50 kurus.

It looks to be a dignified bird with smooth yellow feathers. It has a small beak. I read in 'Bony Capability' that it steals sticks from Blackcrake. I wonder at the uplifting fluting of the Goldeagle.

I don't like its cage, possibly because it was sculpted in the shape of a star. I report it is dying. I see two eggs in the west-most corner. This bodes well.

It plays a kind of sport with Holy Pretty Hen, kicking earrings, which the monarchy of Aka Tilanasco uses in land disputes.

~*~

Eggshell Belly Crake

It's a creature with a stout body clad in pure beige feathers. It has a distinctive blue bill. The Eggshell Belly Crake communicates with a charming song. I perceive it is somewhat balding. It seems that it likes its four eggs. It is kept in a clay cage.

shop owners in Jamibia keep this bird as pets

~*~

Forbidden Ivory Scholar

It seems to be a beast attired in vibrant red feathers. I love its cage, maybe because its aura is of low quality.

Its nest is made from sticks. The warbling of the Forbidden Ivory Scholar seems either metallic or baleful depending on the nature of its diet. It looks to be vivacious. It is carefully washed with a cotton cloth at moonrise.

Droppings of the Forbidden Ivory Scholar are calcified by the Jamibian and used for cleaning.

~*~

Pa'nenish Kestrel

According to 'The Regional Eagerness Encyclopedia', origin: Pa'nen

It's a bird clad in clear beige feathers. Everyone knows when Her Majesty's ship docks the bird nibbles down. The Pa'nenish Kestrel produces an uplifting squawking.

I loathe its cage, maybe because it was built by a navigator. In the middle of summer this species must be groomed with scissors.

hunters in Pa'nen keep this bird as pets

~*~

Penetrating Bay Pelican

The Penetrating Bay Pelican is a bird with a lanky body with spiny pink feathers. Its thick black beak is noteworthy. I love the admirable song of the Penetrating Bay Pelican. It seems to be somewhat balding. When the wind blows in from the sea this species must be groomed with scissors. I admire its cage, possibly because it was made in the shape of a V.

I believe Cem has been stealing Penetrating Bay Pelican skulls in blessing a voyage, but I lack evidence.

They say in Pa'nen that the Penetrating Bay Pelican is always to be found near a sailor.

~*~

Forbidden Enigmatic Turkey

I see a round creature whose neck is blue. It is recognizable by its soothing warbling. It's sickly. It sings in a glass cage that is uncomfortably small.

It plays a kind of sport with Pa'nenish Goose, burying pomegranates, which the theocracy of Ko uses in reading a will.

~*~

Silver Head Owl

I see a lanky bird whose tail is yellow. The buzz of the Silver Head Owl seems either thin or penetrating depending on the time of day. It's energetic. It is kept in a steel cage.

In Jamibia they often eat it, with a hint of bread.

Related to this beast and its preferences, scriptures say:

'Be on the lookout: your ship is coming in,
Get ready for huge changes: break-ups, sudden calls from old friends, and unexpected setbacks,
It's time to watch what you eat'

It makes me feel uneasy..

~*~

Pa'nen Mountain Stork

The Pa'nen Mountain Stork is a bird attired in pale yellow feathers. Its thin brown beak is spectacular. It is kept in a bronze cage.

It gorges on a diminutive amount of mosquitos. This fowl is known for a simple, mysterious song. It's vivacious.

This bird is eaten when the wind blows in from the sea, shredded with an apricot.

~*~

Singing Canary of Northern Medda

The Singing Canary of Northern Medda is a squat bird whose back is beige. It exchanges gifts of seeds with Charming Pink Woods Pecker. The Singing Canary of Northern Medda has a blaring call.

Its cage is large enough to fit two barrel and its look is disappointing. It looks to be losing tail feathers. When it's foggy this species must be groomed with a set of tongs.

I decided to toss the bird's thigh bones the outcome said: Change your ways or suffer the consequences ... I can't take it seriously..

~*~

Lesser Tanbird

It appears to be a beast whose head is brown. I'm amazed by this bird's notable blue tufted crest. The Hungry Kite of Aka Tilanasco makes a harrowing sound which is quite piercing. At midnight this species must be groomed with a comb. It is kept in a sandstone cage.

The people of Northen Medda associate it with evaluation.

~*~

Coastal Striking Fisher

It's a lanky bird clothed in vivid grey feathers. I perceive it is dying. It looks to have laid an elongated egg! Possibly Her Majesty will have a child.

It is kept in a wicker cage. If you can trust my father, it adopts Snowcrow babys as its own. The warbling of this bird is allegedly a replication of the sound of a mouse.

It is fed snails by hand daily.

In Pa'nen they often eat it, with a hint of mint.

~*~

Singing Gingerbird

I see a slippery bird with coarse green feathers. It has a short beak. I loathe its cage, maybe because it is overgrown with almonds.

It flies in the company of Singing Gingerbird. I read in 'Weddings Reports' that the Singing Gingerbird makes an alluring song when it is summer. I see it is losing tail feathers. It seems that it doesn't like its many eggs.

In the rainy season, boys of Northern Medda eat this bird under tangerine blossoms.

~*~

Southern Medda Wash Quail

It's a creature with a gangly body whose breast is blue. Its cage is enormous and it was created in the shape of a sun.

Only scholars know its nest is made from coyote bones. The Southern Medda Wash Quail produces a charming call. I report it is dispirited. It seems that it obsesses over its many eggs.

In the rainy season, peasants of Southern Medda eat this fowl under blown eggs.

~*~

Vuesse Islet Piper

The Vuesse Islet Piper is a bumbling beast. I'm fascinated by this bird's notable tail, which it waves about. It seems to be hale and hearty. It must be groomed with a special fork when the wind blows in from the ocean.

It is kept in a brick cage. I read in 'The Delicious Triumph' that it shares a nest with Vuesse Mountain Egret. The Vuesse Islet Piper makes a mysterious sound which is quite sharp.

Rarely this species must be groomed with a brush.

It's a mystery to me but this bird's guano, when ground to dust, are used for the treatment of eye pains.

~*~

Sbanad Wash Finch

I see a dignified fowl. Its thick green beak is spectacular, which it preens in sandstorms. It eats Sedate Dunes Condor in public competitions in Sbanad. It is recognizable by its thin song.

I quite like its cage, could be because its material is admirable. It looks to be energetic. It is carefully washed with a cotton cloth in high winds.

I thought it spoke to me, saying: 'success'.

~*~

Bloodpiper

Origin: Opex, where it is rare.

It's a pretty bird. It has a spectacular blue beak, which the writers described in their novel. This bird is known by its brazen song. Its cage is laughably large and it was made by a climber.

It bathes in the company of Bloodpiper. It's healthy.

In the rainy season, merchants of Opex eat this fowl under blown eggs.

~*~

Pewterstork

Traded for 90 scales.

I see a long-legged bird with spiny beige feathers. The bird sings with a long pipe then a complex sound three times. Its cage is uncomfortably small and it was woven in the shape of a square.

They say it hoards leaves, which are often stolen by Koese Limpkin. It is fed grubs in a trough when Her Majesty's ship docks.

If reduced to powder, its bones may be combined with cherry for a tasty salad.

~*~

Baleful Trail Quail

Found in the Palace the Under-Library.

I see two eggs near a clump of black marble. The Keepers must come interpret its meaning.

~*~

Piercing Ochrebird

The Piercing Ochrebird is a diminutive bird, about the size of a pear, clothed in prickly, pink-coloured feathers spotted with yellow. I love its noteworthy plume. In festival season this species must be groomed with a comb.

It is kept in an iron cage. Everyone knows Piercing Ochrebird prefers to create its nest out of sticks, near dunes. The Piercing Ochrebird makes a tender sound which is quite cheerful.

It seems to be currently molting. It is carefully washed with a silk cloth rarely.

In Southern Medda they often eat it, dressed in chopped mint.

~*~

Forbidden Snow Dancer

According to 'The Granting a title to nobility Stories', origin: Jamibia

It looks to be a secretive bird. It has a short bill, which it waves about. It adopts Abyssal Mysterious Starling chicks as its own. It is recognizable by its simple song.

It suffers in a copper cage that is of medium size. It must be groomed with a paintbrush frequently.

Her Majesty is said to love its crest as trim on her throne..

~*~

Western Condor of Aka Tilanasco

The Western Condor of Aka Tilanasco is a burrowing bird. It has a conspicuous green belly, which I expected. It must be groomed with a special fork often.

I quite like its cage, possibly because it was made by a ranger. It nests in the company of Western Condor of Aka Tilanasco. The Western Condor of Aka Tilanasco produces a rich song.

It's low-energy.

In the rainy season, gardeners of Aka Tilanasco eat this bird under fawn stencils.

~*~

Eastern Black Artist

It seems to be a huge bird, bigger than a keg, with wild black feathers. It is recognizable by its tender call. I observe it is hale and hearty. It looks to have laid a smooth egg! The Keepers must come interpret its meaning. Its cage is uncomfortably small and it contains a spoon.

I decided to drop feathers from edge of chapel and read the pattern the outcome said: Everything's coming up roses (or sunflowers, whatever the case may be) ... I admire it..

~*~

White Throat Goose

I see a striking bird. I wonder at this bird's noteworthy neck, which it waves about. It sings in an iron cage that is laughably large.

It adopts Tilanascion Ostrich boobylets as its own. This bird is known for a thin, calming song. It is fed small frogs against its will in the evening.

Offal of the White Throat Goose are boiled by the Pa'nenish and used as currency.

~*~

Claydove

Origin: Aka Tilanasco, where it is common.

I see a long creature with conspicuous pink feathers. The Claydove communicates with a short song. It seems to be low-energy. It must be groomed with a set of tongs at high noon.

I love its cage, could be because it is filthy. On the hour the bird looks away from me.

It's sickly.

~*~

Western Ancient Chicken

It appears to be a bird with a lanky body with prominent pink feathers. This beast is known for a short, inspiring song. It must be groomed with a comb late at night. Its cage is of medium size and it was built by a miner.

They say Her Majesty engineered the Western Ancient Chicken as part of an effort.

~*~

Lesser Hawk of Sbanad

It's a plump beast arrayed in frizzled feathers. I wonder at this creature's spectacular crest. I perceive it is vivacious. It appears to have laid a thumbnail-sized egg! The Keepers must come interpret its meaning.

Its cage is enormous and it contains a paint. Occasionally the bird nests west. The bird sings with a short tweet then a low sound twice.

I report it is somewhat balding. It looks to have laid a perfect egg! This bodes well.

I don't know why but this fowl's rib bones, when boiled, are used for cleaning.

~*~

Grasshen

I see a creeping beast. Its curved grey bill is distinctive, which I expected. The Grasshen has a joyful song. It appears to be sickly. It must be groomed with scissors often. Its cage is of medium size and it was crafted by a woodworker.

I dreamed of it last night.

~*~

Eastern Moist Parrot

It's a fowl with a round body clothed in glossy feathers. It sleeps in a wicker cage that is laughably large.

A climber told me it predates Northern Cinnabarbird for food. I'm intrigued by the uplifting squawking of the Eastern Moist Parrot. I report it is dying. I see two eggs up against the cage edge. We will be swarmed by cicadas.

In spring, wanderers of Opex eat this creature under rabbit stencils.

~*~

Blackquetzal

Sold by a Jamibian merchant for 380 kurus. Market average.

It seems to be a gangly bird whose back is grey. It has a spectacular yellow bill. They say its nest is O-shaped and has been found in shadows. The Blackquetzal has a lovely squawking and I love it.

Its cage is far too large and it is shiny. It is carefully washed with a mohair cloth at moonrise.

When I am near it I think of burden.

~*~

Warbling Dove of Northern Medda

The Warbling Dove of Northern Medda is a slippery bird dressed in coarse, topaz-coloured feathers spangled with green. It has notable blue talons. The Warbling Dove of Northern Medda's song sounds like a low trill three times, then a thin pipe. It's dying. It suffers in a silver cage that is laughably large.

In Northern Medda they often eat it, in a sauce of apricot and strawberry.

Her Majesty detests this moist bird... I pray..

~*~

Tilanascion Dove

Acquired as part of the Suspension Effort.

The Tilanascion Dove is a dignified bird with distinctive red feathers. I read it predates Northern Greenbird in harvest season. The Tilanascion Dove communicates with a strident squawking.

I love its cage, maybe because it is speckled with guano. It seems to be dispirited. It must be groomed with a special fork rarely.

It makes me want to visit sparse Aka Tilanasco.

~*~

Hunting Cinnamon Welder

According to 'Kite Book' (courtesy of the Under-Library), origin: Sbanad

It seems to be a plump bird with spiky black feathers. According to 'The Figs Stories', Hunting Cinnamon Welder made its nest in the shape of a book, out of antelope bones. The Hunting Cinnamon Welder makes a dire sound which is quite low.

It dwells in a yellow marble cage that is large enough to fit two horse. It must be groomed with a horsehair brush at sunset.

Few know one can read their forecast by such a method: match its squawking late at night to star twinkling frequencies

~*~

Western Pretty Partridge

Origin: Northern Medda

We are told it is an egg. I suspect it is a sculpture because it barely resembles an egg.

~*~

Vuessi Pelican

I see a long-necked bird whose tail is yellow. I'm curious about this bird's prominent crest. I don't like its cage, perhaps because its craftsmanship is shoddy work.

People say it adopts Lesser Shrike of Aka Tilanasco chicks as its own. They say the dripping bird's warbling is short. It's vivacious.

Eggshells of the Vuessi Pelican are boiled by the Vuessi and used in christening a ship.

~*~

Melodious Hole Starling

It's a gangly fowl sheathed in glossy, clay-coloured feathers peppered with pink. I'm curious about this bird's conspicuous plume. I perceive it is healthy. It seems that it loathes its many eggs.

It suffers in a bronze cage that is smallish. In 'Success Reports', it hoards flies, which are often stolen by Chattering Thrasher of Opex. This bird is known by its soothing call.

It is fed rotting meat against its will when Qutbuddin is at its peak.

In the rainy season, oryx breeders of Jamibia eat this bird under cricket stencils.

~*~

The Goose of Jamibia

It seems to be a bird dressed in spiny feathers. A gardener said the The Goose of Jamibia makes a fearful warbling when it is early winter. Three times a week this species must be groomed with a brush. It suffers in a pewter cage that is of medium size.

In spring, dealers of Jamibia eat this bird under blown eggs.

When I am near it I think of withdrawal.

~*~

Grassscoter

Confiscated from the the Pit.

It's a lanky creature whose throat is black. Normally the Grassscoter makes an ominous fluting but when it is hunting it makes a piercing call. It's vivacious.

It lives in a clay cage that is pitiably small. It hunts in the company of Grassscoter.

It is carefully washed with a silk cloth when a prince dies.

~*~

Aka Tilanasco Dunes Quail

It's a creature with a plump body clad in fluffy feathers. It has a distinctive green beak. Normally the Aka Tilanasco Dunes Quail makes a strange warbling but when it is alone it makes a mysterious twittering. It's dying. It is kept in a leaves cage.

It's a mystery to me but this bird's rib bones, when reduced to powder, are used in executions.

It is used in divination.

~*~

Ko Cave Wigeon

It looks to be an unusual bird clothed in downy, oil-coloured feathers penciled with beige. It has a hooked bill. Few know the Ko Cave Wigeon produces a sound like howling winds. It seems to be losing tail feathers. It is fed bark as a treat in the new moon. Its cage is pitiably small and it is suspiciously clean.

Rib bones of the Ko Cave Wigeon are dried and ground by the Koese and used for the treatment of finger difficulties.

They say it is the result of a mole and spider falling in love, 5,000 years ago.

~*~

Rich Pass Chickadee

The Rich Pass Chickadee is a lonely beast. I'm curious about this bird's prominent green crest, which I expected. The Rich Pass Chickadee has a distinctive, metallic fluting which it makes late at night. It seems to be losing tail feathers. It is carefully washed with a silk cloth in spring. Its cage is far too large and its craftsmanship is undeserving of Her Majesty's time.

I believe Cem has been stealing Rich Pass Chickadee down for lamp oil, so I should report it.

Its legs are worth its weight in kurus, especially in Aka Tilanasco.

~*~

Singing Lime Woodworker

Origin: Opex

I see two eggs near the middle of the cage. This bodes well.

~*~

Greater Coral Shipbuilder

It looks to be a lumbering bird, bigger than a barrel, with brown-and-red feathers. The Greater Coral Shipbuilder has a distinctive, baleful warbling which it makes at sunset. I report it is hale and hearty. I see two eggs in the furthest corner. The Keepers must come interpret its meaning. Its cage is pitiably small and it contains a goblet.

It was the subject of the infamous poem by Emine Gazi, Watch Out For Envious Friends, along with Sbanadan Dipper

~*~

Pa'nen Mountain Penguin

It's a bird with green-and-blue feathers. I'm perplexed by this bird's noteworthy tail. I'm amazed by the low squawking of the Pa'nen Mountain Penguin. I report it is hale and hearty. I see two eggs in the nest. If you can trust my close friend, this means we will be swarmed by slugs. I quite like its cage, could be because it contains a cup.

I secretly believe Cem has been stealing Pa'nen Mountain Penguin droppings for cleaning piece of charcoals, so I should report it.

hunters in Pa'nen keep this bird as pets

~*~

Lesser Imposing Plover

Purchased in Sbanad for 90 kurus.

It looks to be a long bird with frizzled red feathers. The fowl sings with a rich pipe then a complex tweet once. It is kept in a limestone cage.

They say its nest is made from cactus needles. It is fed small frogs against its will frequently.

Talons of the Lesser Imposing Plover are boiled by the Tilanascion and used in executions.

~*~

Tilanascion Hawk

I see a lonely creature with blue-and-green feathers. I'm amazed by this bird's prominent crest. Tilanascion Hawk made its nest in the shape of an amulet, out of mule bones. They say the Tilanascion Hawk makes a blustering call when it is hunting.

I loathe its cage, could be because it is smudged with dirt. I report it is healthy. It seems that it likes its two eggs.

I dreamed of it last night.

~*~

Gold Neck Condor

Rescued from the the Emerald Harems by Her Majesty's grace.

It's a sandy bird. I'm intrigued by this bird's prominent head, which it preens in sandstorms. This beast produces a harrowing call when Her Majesty wakes up. It is fed snails in a trough at high noon.

It is kept in a straw cage. In 'The Cartilage Stories', the donkey hunts it sometimes.

It's sickly.

~*~

Chattering Mossbird

Origin: Opex, where it is thought to be extinct.

I see a moist beast sheathed in prickly, cinnabar-coloured feathers peppered with red. It has a wide beak. I'm fascinated by the brash squawking of the Chattering Mossbird. It seems to be low-energy. It must be groomed with a brush sometimes.

It is kept in a stone cage. It flies in the company of Chattering Mossbird.

I report it is sickly. It seems to have laid a smooth egg! The Keepers must come interpret its meaning.

~*~

Hungry Shearwater of Southern Medda

I see a sandy bird whose tail is blue. It looks to be losing tail feathers. It is carefully washed with a mohair cloth in the morning.

I quite like its cage, maybe because its craftsmanship is poorly conceived. It shares a nest with Singing Pheasant of Northern Medda. This bird is known by its complex call.

It looks to be hale and hearty. Sometimes this species must be groomed with a set of tongs.

In the rainy season, girls of Southern Medda eat this creature under fig blossoms.

~*~

Lesser Red Hedonist

I see a creature with distinctive green feathers. I'm fascinated by this creature's notable tail. I like its cage, could be because it is quite dirty.

During an eclipse the bird twitters down. If you listen carefully it sounds like it sings: 'Someone is making a decision' It's becoming more downy with time.

I fear Cem has been stealing Lesser Red Hedonist down for cleaning, so I should report it.

~*~

Hunting Ironbird

It looks to be a tall beast with wild green feathers. I love its notable tail. It looks to be vivacious. It is carefully washed with a mohair cloth in sandstorms.

Its cage is laughably large and it was built in the shape of a bow-and-arrow. Only scholars know it shares a nest with Uncanny Wash Hawk. This bird produces a sharp call during an eclipse.

In the evening this species must be groomed with a paintbrush.

In Southern Medda they often eat it, on a bed of mint.

~*~

Eastern Creeping Parakeet

Traded for 600 incense burners. A fair deal.

It looks to be a fowl sheathed in light blue feathers. I wonder at this bird's prominent head. The Eastern Creeping Parakeet produces a charming song. It is kept in a straw cage.

It enjoys singing duets with Opexi Hummingbird. It's ill.

This creature is eaten when it rains, fluffed with a mint.

~*~

Roseduck

Gifted to Her Majesty by an admirer in Southern Medda.

The Roseduck is a bird with notable green feathers. A carpenter said the Roseduck makes a soft squawking when it is hunting. I love its cage, maybe because it contains a blade.

It likes the new pool of water in its cage. In the early evening this species must be groomed with a horsehair brush.

They say that the eggshells of the Roseduck can be made into a tincture and used for cleaning barrels.

~*~

Brash Wash Shrike

It looks to be a thirsty bird. It has a sharp beak, which I expected. It seems to be vivacious. It is fed figs as a treat in high winds.

Its cage is pitiably small and it was engineered by a miner. It enjoys singing duets with Tilanascion Swallow. The Brash Wash Shrike makes a high sound which is quite ominous.

It is fed melons against its will occasionally.

I gather Cem has been stealing Brash Wash Shrike talons as a seasoning, but I have no proof.

~*~

Southern Cloudbird

Origin: Vuesse

The Southern Cloudbird is an enormous bird, as big as a horse, clothed in dark black feathers. The Southern Cloudbird produces a soft call. It seems to be dying. At high tide this species must be groomed with scissors.

It is kept in a steel cage. Southern Cloudbird prefers to make its nest out of seaweed, near the water.

I see it is sickly. It seems that it obsesses over its many eggs.

~*~

Violetstarling

It seems to be a bird with pink-and-purple feathers. I adore this bird's notable plume. It lives in a camel hair cage that is laughably large.

Few know its nest is diamond-shaped and has been found in shadows. This creature is known for a thin, soft song. I observe it is currently molting. I see two eggs up against the cage edge. Maybe storms approach.

Bones of the Violetstarling are calcified by the Jamibian and used for the treatment of melancholy.

~*~

Bluestork

I see a bird covered with strong yellow feathers. It has a prominent red tail. It seems to be dispirited. At low tide this species must be groomed with a set of tongs.

It sings in a ceramic cage that is of medium size. It steals sticks from Holy Turkey of Jamibia. If you listen carefully it sounds like it sings: 'A new job offer is coming your way'

It's currently molting.

This creature is eaten at high tide, steamed with a blue onion.

~*~

Eastern Ancient Scoter

I see a bird whose head is black. I'm intrigued by its distinctive tufted crest. It appears to be dispirited. It is carefully washed with a velvet cloth in the middle of summer.

I love its cage, maybe because it was created in the shape of a square. They say its nest is made from giraffe bones. The Eastern Ancient Scoter makes a bold sound which is quite strident.

It looks to be vivacious. Occasionally this species must be groomed with a comb.

If you can trust my grandma, that the offal of the Eastern Ancient Scoter can be calcified and used for the treatment of colds.

~*~

Portentous Dunes Vulture

It's a bird with lustrous yellow feathers. I'm interested in its conspicuous tail. They say the Portentous Dunes Vulture makes a strident squawking when it is hunting. It looks to be dying. During The Blessed One Fair this species must be groomed with a brush. It suffers in a steel cage that is smallish.

In 'Stories of Attention', fortune-tellers match its squawking late at night to rings of a magnolia tree twice a week

~*~

Sbanadan Shearwater

It appears to be a squat bird whose throat is green. It has a notable beige tail. It is kept in a steel cage.

Sbanadan Shearwater made its nest in the shape of a paint, out of jackal bones. The Sbanadan Shearwater produces a dire buzz. It seems to be losing tail feathers. It is fed leaves on a platter in high winds.

In spring, orphans of Sbanad eat this bird under blown eggs.

~*~

Penetrating Mountain Ptarmigan

According to 'The Book of Success', origin: Jamibia

It seems to be a fowl with conspicuous purple feathers. Often the bird looks southward. The warbling of the Penetrating Mountain Ptarmigan resembles a woman's voice and I don't understand it.

It is kept in a clay cage. It must be groomed with scissors during The Poet Festival.

The people of Opex associate it with attention.

~*~

Roseparakeet

According to 'Opexi Cherries', origin: Opex

I see a creeping fowl whose back is brown. The Roseparakeet communicates with a piercing twittering. It is fed mosquitos against its will during Tong Fair.

It suffers in a granite cage that is pitiably small. It steals earrings from Piercing Dusty Swift.

It must be groomed with a brush when it hails.

~*~

Lesser Pinkbird

Origin: Vuesse

It's a diminutive bird, no bigger than a cup, with beige-and-black feathers. Its narrow yellow beak is prominent. This bird is known by its haunting call. It is kept in a steel cage.

It swallows a little fluffed apricot with a cherry sauce. It is carefully washed with a feather cloth frequently.

In the rainy season, gardeners of Vuesse eat this beast under cricket stencils.

~*~

Abyssal Owl of Jamibia

I see a beast with a gangly body with blue-and-black feathers. I'm interested in its conspicuous plume. Abyssal Owl of Jamibia made its nest in the shape of a mirror, out of grass. This bird is known for a thin, bizarre song.

Its cage is of medium size and its appearance is admirable. I must report it is energetic. A little egg is in the nest.

They say in Jamibia that the Abyssal Owl of Jamibia is always to be found near a philosopher.

~*~

Abyssal Dusk Scholar

It seems to be an unusual bird with prominent grey feathers. Its nest is triangle-shaped and has been found in the grass. The squawking of the Abyssal Dusk Scholar seems either blustering or low depending on its age.

It dwells in a straw cage that is the appropriate size. It's currently molting.

I could read my fortune (I'm told to swirl feathers in a freshly dug hole of ink and read the pattern).

~*~

Greenseagull

I see a bird sheathed in glossy, sage-coloured feathers laced with green. The Greenseagull's warbling sounds like a thin sound once, then a long pipe. It is carefully washed with a silk cloth at midnight. It sleeps in a sandstone cage that is of medium size.

The people of Sbanad associate it with capability.

~*~

Piercing Vulture of Southern Medda

Bartered by a scout, for tax payment.

It seems to be a thirsty bird attired in irregular feathers. According to 'The Attention Scrolls' (second Edition), it nests in the company of Piercing Vulture of Southern Medda. The Piercing Vulture of Southern Medda's song sounds like a high pipe thrice, then a long chirp.

I love its cage, maybe because it contains a chair. It's dispirited.

Her Majesty requested Piercing Vulture of Southern Medda specifically, yet I don't know why...

~*~

Cinnamonvireo

I see a bony bird. It has a strong bill, which I did not expect. The twittering of the Cinnamonvireo resembles any human voice and I can't comprehend it. It looks to be sickly. It is fed cherry wood by hand sometimes. I love its cage, maybe because its aura is of remarkably high quality.

I secretly believe Cem has been stealing Cinnamonvireo fat for cleaning plates, but I lack evidence.

I read in 'Bunting Guide' by Sofiye Murad that it loves the camel.

~*~

Lavender Back Owl

Purchased in Ko for 105 kurus.

It is a small vibrant beige egg, not yet hatched. They say this means the pomegranates of the caves are poisoned.

~*~

Sbanad Pass Quail

Value: approx. 50,000 kurus.

It seems to be a bird with notable yellow feathers. The Sbanad Pass Quail's song sounds like a high sound once, then a simple chirp. Its cage is large enough to fit two camel and it contains a jug.

They say it exchanges gifts of earrings with Greater Rain Gossip. It's vivacious.

I worry Cem has been stealing Sbanad Pass Quail guano as a seasoning, but I dare not say anything.

~*~

Singing Grey Butcher

It's a little bird, no bigger than a bowl, with conspicuous green feathers. I adore the blaring song of the Singing Grey Butcher. It looks to be ill. It is fed an apricot garnished with salty-gourd (shredded or raw) in a trough when Her Majesty holds court. It sleeps in a gold cage that is of medium size.

It featured in the celebrated novel by Uzun Murad, Something New Comes Your Way; Go For It, along with Opex Field Tanager

~*~

Southern Green Woodcutter

Origin: Opex

It's a creature dressed in velvety, red-coloured feathers mottled with pink. It has a notable black bill. The bird sings with a long trill then a thin sound thrice. It is carefully washed with a wool cloth when it hails.

It is kept in a silver cage. Its nest is O-shaped and has been found in sight of damp corners.

It seems to be healthy. It must be groomed with a comb in the morning.

~*~

Indigo Tail Albatross

The Indigo Tail Albatross is a bird covered with complex, gold-coloured feathers speckled with blue. Indigo Tail Albatross made its nest in the shape of a pipe, out of sticks. They say the Indigo Tail Albatross makes an ominous song when it desires a mate.

It is kept in a bone cage. It's currently molting.

youths in Pa'nen keep this bird as pets

~*~

Cloud Belly Piper

I see a bumbling bird. I wonder at this beast's distinctive crest, which it waves about. Its cage is of medium size and its craftsmanship is inspiring.

They say it adopts The Ivory Dreamer penguinlings as its own. If you can trust my mother, the Cloud Belly Piper produces a sound like a choir of singers. It's dispirited.

In Pa'nen they often eat it, with a hint of red onion.

~*~

Piercing Ancient Yellowbill

It seems to be a bony beast. Its curved orange beak is prominent, which the priestesses described in their story. I love its cage, maybe because its material is poorly made.

According to 'Book of Dates', it steals oranges from Plumturkey. The Piercing Ancient Yellowbill produces a charming squawking. It seems to be healthy. It must be groomed with a comb in high winds.

If calcified, its rib bones may be combined with basil for a regional bowl.

~*~

Brown Head Chickadee

The Brown Head Chickadee is a sandy bird. I'm curious about this beast's spectacular crest, which it preens late at night. I'm perplexed by the delicate call of the Brown Head Chickadee. It must be groomed with a special fork daily. It sings in an oakwood cage that is of medium size.

In spring, criminals of Aka Tilanasco eat this bird under blown eggs.

When I am near it I think of attention.

~*~

Bluegrouse

Origin: Northern Medda

I see two eggs in the nest. Possibly Her Majesty will have a baby.

~*~

Singing Pretty Chickadee

Donated to the Palace by a rare woodcutter.

The Singing Pretty Chickadee is a tiny bird, no bigger than a tea cup, clothed in vivid green feathers. I'm intrigued by this bird's conspicuous back. The squawking of the Singing Pretty Chickadee seems either delightful or sharp depending on the nature of its diet. Its cage is the appropriate size and it was engineered by a glutton.

I read in 'The Unusual Green bird' that it nests in the company of Singing Pretty Chickadee. It seems to be somewhat balding. It is carefully washed with a camel hair cloth when the harvest begins.

In spring, informants of Northern Medda eat this bird under blown eggs.

~*~

Jamibian Cuckoo

Origin: Jamibia Mountain

It's a fowl with a stout body covered with deep black feathers. It seems that it loathes peck in the nest. The Jamibian Cuckoo has a notable, reassuring call which it makes in the evening.

Its cage is large enough to fit four camel and it contains an incense burner. It's losing tail feathers.

My trusted source told me in Jamibia that the Jamibian Cuckoo is always to be found near a sinner.

~*~

Meddese Cardinal

It appears to be a squat fowl whose belly is orange. I wonder at this creature's spectacular black plume. The Meddese Cardinal makes a soft sound which is quite gentle. It's ill. I admire its cage, possibly because it was made by a dealer.

If turned to a gel, its droppings may be combined with strawberry for a regional salad.

A controversial freize in the National Cathedral of Northern Medda features Meddese Cardinal, close to a fork

~*~

Gentle Island Stork

It looks to be a curious bird whose tail is black. It enjoys singing duets with Greater Funny Hen. This bird is known by its long call.

It sleeps in a copper cage that is uncomfortably small. It looks to be energetic. It is carefully washed with a wool cloth in planting season.

I thought it spoke to me, saying: 'attention'.

~*~

Topaz Breast Falcon

It's a fowl with prominent green feathers. I'm intrigued by this fowl's notable plume. It is carefully washed with a velvet cloth frequently.

Its cage is of medium size and it was woven by a gardener. It adopts Piercing Condor of Southern Medda chicks as its own. The Topaz Breast Falcon's call sounds like a thin chirp twice, then a short sound.

It seems to be sickly. It is carefully washed with a mohair cloth in sandstorms.

In Aka Tilanasco they often eat it, garnished with cherry (raw or fresh ).

~*~

Northern Quail of Sbanad

I see a lanky beast whose back is green. It has a curved beak. It steals apples from Hungry Bony Finch. This bird is known for a short, tender song.

It lives in a copper cage that is pitiably small. It seems to be somewhat balding. Often this species must be groomed with a special fork.

It is used in executions.

~*~

Lesser Grand Turkey

I see a burrowing bird. It has a distinctive grey tail, which it waves about. I read in 'Articles of Perspective' by Dr. Hatun that it shares a nest with Indigo Tail Albatross. The Lesser Grand Turkey makes an ominous sound which is quite complex.

I loathe its cage, maybe because it is very clean. It seems to be losing tail feathers. It is fed chopped nut with a strawberry sauce against its will in sandstorms.

I decided to match its squawking in the evening to star twinkling frequencies the outcome said: Someone you know needs to howl at the moon more often ... I shall not change my qualities..

~*~

Piercing Grand Quail

Appeared miraculously after Her Majesty had a dream of activity.

I see a thirsty fowl with coarse blue feathers. It eats in the company of Piercing Grand Quail. This bird is known for a thin, ominous song.

I adore its cage, maybe because it was made in the shape of a gravestone. It's dying.

A controversial sculpture in the Unity Plaza of Sbanad features Piercing Grand Quail, in a jug

~*~

Koese Owl

The Koese Owl is an unusual bird. Its wide beige beak is noteworthy, which it preens at the full moon. This bird produces a long chirping when a priestess dies. I must report it is energetic. I see two eggs in the nest. The Keepers must come interpret its meaning. I love its cage, perhaps because its look is poorly conceived.

It reminds me of Cem, in a cold way.

~*~

Coastal Pelican of Vuesse

According to 'The Book of Advancement' (Chapter Nine), origin: Vuesse

The Coastal Pelican of Vuesse is a round fowl with notable grey feathers. The Coastal Pelican of Vuesse's twittering sounds like a short tweet once, then a rich clack. I must report it is currently molting. It seems that it obsesses over its two eggs.

It suffers in a granite cage that is pitiably small. It predates Leatherfalcon in public competitions in Vuesse.

I see it is vivacious. I see four eggs near the middle of the cage. Maybe Opex will join the war, as our ally.

~*~

Beigevulture

Gifted to Her Majesty long before my time.

The Beigevulture is a burrowing bird. It has conspicuous beige legs, which it waves about. The bird sings with a thin chirp then a low trill twice. It seems to be somewhat balding. Daily this species must be groomed with a set of tongs.

It is kept in a leaves cage. I've heard it enjoys singing duets with Topaz Breast Falcon.

It looks to be low-energy. It must be groomed with a comb in the middle of spring.

~*~

Southern Sagebird

I see a desolate bird. I'm interested in this bird's distinctive belly, which it preens in withering season. This bird produces a brash warbling during The Brazier Jubilee. It's dispirited. Its cage is large enough to fit two camel and it was built in the shape of a square.

Few know it adores the spider.

~*~

Singing Olivebird

Captured in a nearby mountain.

I see a small fowl, no bigger than a tea cup, with blue-and-black feathers. The song of the Singing Olivebird seems either melodious or lovely depending on the nature of its diet. I observe it is hale and hearty. A cold egg sits near the east edge.

It is kept in a glass cage. Only scholars know it enjoys singing duets with Red Breast Martin.

It's healthy.

~*~

Topaz Head Shrike

The Topaz Head Shrike is a burrowing bird attired in downy, oil-coloured feathers barred with green. It has prominent yellow wingtips. The song of the Topaz Head Shrike seems either bold or fearful depending on its mood. I must report it is dispirited. It appears that it admires its many eggs. I like its cage, possibly because its craftsmanship is inspiring.

In Aka Tilanasco they often eat it, with a hint of cherry.

I've heard fortune-tellers put a talisman and scale in front of it and see which it picks at high noon

~*~

Abyssal Strange Crake

It seems to be a stout bird dressed in lustrous feathers. It's currently molting.

I don't like its cage, perhaps because its appearance is of high quality. Abyssal Strange Crake prefers to make its nest out of straw, in sight of caves. Normally the Abyssal Strange Crake makes a calming fluting but when it is alone it makes a strident song.

It seems to be energetic. It is fed meat forcibly three times a moonphase.

I think Cem has been stealing Abyssal Strange Crake droppings to trade, but I dare not say anything.

~*~

Southern Medda Creekbed Warbler

According to 'The Naming a child Book', origin: Southern Medda

The Southern Medda Creekbed Warbler is an ancient bird. I'm intrigued by its prominent plume, which the poets described in their saga. They say the lonely creature's buzz is charming. I observe it is dispirited. It seems that it adores its two eggs.

Its cage is smallish and it is speckled with guano. It steals apples from Twilightdipper.

It's low-energy.

~*~

Jamibian Bunting

I see a squat bird with coarse yellow feathers. The Jamibian Bunting communicates with an ominous call. I report it is sickly. A perfect egg has been laid close to the water. It is kept in a bronze cage.

Everyone knows it adores the spider.

~*~

Greater Catcher of Opex

The Greater Catcher of Opex is a melancholy bird. It has a needle-like bill, which it preens when it's foggy. It sleeps in a granite cage that is pitiably small.

It adopts Beigevulture babys as its own. This bird is known for a complex, blaring song. I perceive it is ill. It looks that it loves its two eggs.

Bones of the Greater Catcher of Opex are dried and ground by the Opexi and used as a ritual offering.

~*~

Sbanad Wash Ostrich

It's a sandy fowl clothed in turbulent feathers. It has a prominent blue neck. Sbanad Wash Ostrich prefers to build its nest out of cactus needles, under eaves of welder-houses. This bird is known by its inspiring song.

I loathe its cage, maybe because it contains a tong. It is carefully washed with a feather cloth sometimes.

It plays a kind of sport with Eastern Stonebird, carrying small mushrooms, which the theocracy of Sbanad uses in marriage disputes.

~*~

Jamibia Cave Loon

Gifted by a charitable citizen.

It's a fowl with uniform black feathers. It has a conspicuous red bill. It adopts Rich Pass Chickadee piperlets as its own. The Jamibia Cave Loon has a soothing call.

It sings in an iron cage that is large enough to fit two large dog. It's vivacious.

It featured in the historic novel by Aq Murad, A Lover Is Getting Restless, along with Legendary Gold Ranger

~*~

Piercing Dignified Swift

It's a sandy beast. Its wide pink bill is distinctive, which it waves about. I quite like its cage, perhaps because its aura is poorly conceived.

The snake predates it in high winds. This bird is known by its soothing warbling. It appears to be currently molting. It is carefully washed with a velvet cloth when a magister dies.

They say that the feathers of the Piercing Dignified Swift can be dried and ground and used for cleaning.

~*~

Warbling Moist Quit

Origin: Opex, where it is fairly common.

It's a small bird, no bigger than a tea cup, whose tail is pink. It is recognizable by its penetrating fluting. It's currently molting.

It suffers in a clay cage that is of medium size. If you can trust my father, it does not like the new drinking dish in its cage.

I report it is ill. I see four eggs in the corner. This bodes ill.

~*~

Hunting Lonely Tanager

I see a bird whose neck is blue. It has conspicuous black eyes. It seems to be dispirited. In high winds this species must be groomed with a comb.

It is kept in a grey marble cage. A bandit said it steals flies from Harrowing Trail Vireo. Normally the Hunting Lonely Tanager makes a high song but when it desires a mate it makes a strange warbling.

It's losing tail feathers.

I fear Cem has been stealing Hunting Lonely Tanager down as makeup, but I lack evidence.

~*~

Hunting Shrike of Southern Medda

I've heard the bird came here of its own accord.

I see a bird with pink-and-beige feathers. It is recognizable by its complex call. It's currently molting.

It is kept in a reeds cage. In 'Articles of Activity', it adopts Legendary Shrike of Aka Tilanasco babys as its own.

It's dispirited.

~*~

Rich Islet Heron

I see a plump bird clothed in pale red feathers. It's energetic.

It sleeps in a bronze cage that is pitiably small. It does not like the new iron bead in its cage. This bird produces a beautiful fluting during The Party of the Totality.

It seems to be low-energy. It is fed seedlings as a treat at high tide.

This bird is eaten when Her Majesty's ship docks, shredded with a basil.

~*~

Ko Peak Hen

I see a fowl with a round body attired in wild feathers. It suffers in a bone cage that is far too large.

It loves the new pool of water in its cage. They say the enigmatic bird's song is rich. I report it is low-energy. It seems that it does not like its four eggs.

Down of the Ko Peak Hen are turned to a gel by the Koese and used in lovers disputes.

~*~

Charming Ditch Owl

It seems to be a diminutive bird the size of a cup with red-and-beige feathers. I adore its prominent plume. It suffers in a marble cage that is the appropriate size.

In 'Secretive Change Reports', it swallows a camel-weight of a cherry salad. The Charming Ditch Owl has a low buzz. It's becoming more velvety with time.

Droppings of the Charming Ditch Owl are ground to dust by the Jamibian and used in land disputes.

~*~

Penetrating Hole Starling

The Penetrating Hole Starling is a tall bird whose throat is orange. I adore this bird's spectacular blue plume. This bird is known by its charming warbling. It's losing tail feathers. I don't like its cage, possibly because it is a little messy.

Her Majesty requested Penetrating Hole Starling specifically, maybe because it reminds her of triumph...

~*~

Platinumwarbler

I see a beast with a squat body with distinctive brown feathers. When Noorishah is at its peak this species must be groomed with a horsehair brush.

I adore its cage, maybe because it contains a brick. They say it appears that it does not like nibble close to the food. The warbling of the Platinumwarbler resembles any human voice and I don't know why.

It must be groomed with a comb in planting season.

This beast is eaten when it snows, chopped with a basil.

~*~

Hungry Dustbird

Captured in the local countryside.

I see a fowl clothed in vivid green feathers. I adore its distinctive crest. A stonemason said it swallows a little amount of meat. My good friend told me the imposing bird's squawking is charming.

It is kept in a steel cage. It appears to be ill. It is fed flies by hand on the hour.

It was mentioned in the celebrated poem by Hatice Kasim, Prepare To Defend Yourself Or Someone You Love, along with Greenfalcon

~*~

Koese Martin

It seems to be a lanky beast whose belly is orange. I quite like its cage, possibly because its aura is admirable.

It shares a nest with The Ptarmigan of Jamibia. According to 'The Guide of Weddings' by Husnusah Suleyman, the pretty bird's call is delicate. It is carefully washed with a wool cloth when the stars align.

In Ko they often eat it, in a sauce of strawberry and mint.

~*~

Silver Throat Owl

Origin: Down Ko

It seems to be a beast with a gangly body dressed in fluffy, clay-coloured feathers striped with pink. They say the enigmatic bird's chirping is delicate. It's hale and hearty.

It is kept in an oakwood cage. It hoards pebbles, which are often stolen by Goldbluebill.

It's dying.

~*~

Hunting Pinkbird

It seems to be a bird arrayed in frizzled feathers. It sings in a glass cage that is the appropriate size.

Its nest is mountain-shaped and has been found by mountains. The bird sings with a high trill then a thin clack three times. In high winds this species must be groomed with a horsehair brush.

This bird is eaten at high noon, fresh with a blue onion.

~*~

Complex Canopy Quit

Traded from the Opex Aviary.

It seems to be a bird with a squat body sheathed in prickly feathers. They say the dainty bird's song is uncanny. I observe it is sickly. I see two eggs in the food. Maybe Opex will join the war, as our enemy.

It is kept in a sandstone cage. I read in 'The Beasts Reports' by Col. Hatun that Complex Canopy Quit made its nest in the shape of a ladle, out of ferns.

It is fed a bowl of apricot and brown onion on a platter in the evening.

~*~

Southern Gunpowder Ranger

The Southern Gunpowder Ranger is a bony bird sheathed in silky, clay-coloured feathers spangled with black. I adore its prominent tufted crest. It exchanges gifts of eggs with Lesser Grand Turkey. The Southern Gunpowder Ranger has a long call and I do not like it.

It is kept in a glass cage. I observe it is energetic. It seems to have laid a repulsive egg! They say this means Aka Tilanasco will join the war, as our ally.

When I am near it I think of conclusion.

~*~

Long Bay Crane

Found in the the Emerald Harems in the early evening.

It's a bird with a round body covered with turbulent, beige-coloured feathers penciled with purple. It has a spectacular orange beak. An interpreter told me it steals small mushrooms from Northern Greenbird. The Long Bay Crane produces a high warbling.

It is kept in a brick cage. It must be groomed with a comb late at night.

My mother told me its strange song brings victory.

~*~

Singing Cedar Woodcutter

It appears to be a creature with a long-necked body whose breast is black. Its conical green beak is conspicuous. The Singing Cedar Woodcutter has a distinctive, grotesque twittering which it makes just before sunrise. When it hails this species must be groomed with a brush. It sings in a gold cage that is laughably large.

Few know that the guano of the Singing Cedar Woodcutter can be calcified and used as makeup.

I read in 'Persuasion Book' that it loves the ferret.Thus, my task is complete. Cem thinks perhaps now would be a good time to take leave and visit the aviary of Ko. If Her Majesty blesses such a journey, perhaps we shall follow the migration patterns there.

THE END